CHAPTER 1 
 
It was nearing midnight and the Prime Minister was sitting alone in his 
office, reading a long memo that was slipping through his brain without 
leaving the slightest trace of meaning behind. He was waiting for a call from 
the President of a far distant count ry, and between wondering when the 
wretched man would telephone, and tr ying to suppress unpleasant memories 
of what had been a very long, tiring, and difficult week, there was not much 
space in his head for anything else. Th e more he attempted to focus on the 
print on the page before him, the more clearly the Prime Minister could see 
the gloating face of one of his political  opponents. This particular opponent 
had appeared on the news that very day, not only to enumerate all the 
terrible things that had happened in th e last week (as though anyone needed 
reminding) but also to explain why each and every one of them was the 
government's fault. 
 
The Prime Minister's pulse quickened  at the very thought of these 
accusations, for they were neither fa ir nor true. How on earth was his 
government supposed to have stopped that bridge collapsing? It was 
outrageous for anybody to suggest that they were  not spending enough on 
bridges. The bridge was fewer than ten years old, and the best experts were 
at a loss to explain why it had snappe d cleanly in two, sending a dozen cars 
into the watery depths of the river below. And how dare anyone suggest that 
it was lack of policemen that had resu lted in those two very nasty and well-
publicized murders? Or that the govern ment should have somehow foreseen 
the freak hurricane in the West Country that had caused so much damage to 
both people and property?  And was it his fault that one of his Junior Ministers, Herbert Chorley, had chosen th is week to act so peculiarly that he 
was now going to be spending a lot more time with his family? 
 
"A grim mood has gripped the count ry," the opponent had concluded, 
barely concealing his own broad grin. 
 
And unfortunately, this was perfectly  true. The Prime Minister felt it 
himself; people really did seem more mi serable than usual. Even the weather 
was dismal; all this chilly mist in th e middle of July... It wasn't right, it 
wasn't normal... 
 
He turned over the second page of the memo, saw how much longer it 
went on, and gave it up as a bad job. Stretching his arms above his head he 
looked around his office mournfully. It was a handsome room, with a fine 
marble fireplace facing th e long sash windows, firmly closed against the 
unseasonable chill. With a slight shiv er, the Prime Minister got up and 
moved over to the window, looking out at the thin mist that was pressing itself against the glass. It was then, as  he stood with his back to the room, 
that he heard a soft cough behind him. 
 
He froze, nose to nose with his own s cared-looking reflection in the dark 
glass. He knew that cough. He had heard it before. He turned very slowly to 
face the empty room. 
 
"Hello?" he said, trying to sound braver than he felt. 
 For a brief moment he allowed himself the impossible hope that nobody 
would answer him. However, a voice re sponded at once, a crisp, decisive 
voice that sounded as though it were re ading a prepared statement. It was 
coming -- as the Prime Minister had known at the first cough -- from the 
froglike little man wearing a long silver  wig who was depicted in a small, 
dirty oil painting in the far corner of the room. 
 
"To the Prime Minister of Muggles . Urgent we meet. Kindly respond 
immediately. Sincerely, Fudge." 
 
The man in the painting looked i nquiringly at the Prime Minister. 
 
"Er," said the Prime Minister, "listen... It's not a very good time for me... 
I'm waiting for a telephone call, you see... from the President of--" 
 
"That can be rearranged," said the por trait at once. The Prime Minister's 
heart sank. He had been afraid of that. 
 
"But I really was rather hoping to speak--" 
 
"We shall arrange for the President to forget to call. He will telephone 
tomorrow night instead," said the little man. "Kindly respond immediately to 
Mr. Fudge." 
 
"I... oh... very well," said the Prime  Minister weakly. "Yes, I'll see 
Fudge." 
 He hurried back to his desk, straightening his tie as he went. He had 
barely resumed his seat , and arranged his face in to what he hoped was a 
relaxed and unfazed expression, when bri ght green flames burst into life in 
the empty grate beneath his marble mant elpiece. He watched, trying not to 
betray a flicker of surprise or alarm,  as a portly man appeared within the 
flames, spinning as fast as a top. Seconds later, he ha d climbed out onto a 
rather fine antique rug, brushing ash from the sleeves of his long pin-striped 
cloak, a lime-green bow ler hat in his hand. 
 
"Ah... Prime Minister," said Corne lius Fudge, striding forward with his 
hand outstretched. "Good to see you again." 
 
The Prime Minister could not honestly return this compliment, so said 
nothing at all. He was not  remotely pleased to see Fudge, whose occasional 
appearances, apart from being downright alarming in themselves, generally 
meant that he was about to hear some  very bad news. Furthermore, Fudge 
was looking distinctly careworn. He was thinner, balder, and grayer, and his 
face had a crumpled look. The Prime Mi nister had seen that kind of look in 
politicians before, an d it never boded well. 
 
"How can I help you?" he said, sh aking Fudge's hand very briefly and 
gesturing toward the hardest of th e chairs in front of the desk. 
 
"Difficult to know where to begin," muttered Fudge, pulling up the chair, 
sitting down, and placing his green bow ler upon his knees. "What a week, 
what a week..." 
 "Had a bad one too, have you?" asked the Prime Minister stiffly, hoping 
to convey by this that he had quite e nough on his plate already without any 
extra helpings from Fudge. 
 
"Yes, of course," said Fudge, r ubbing his eyes wearily and looking 
morosely at the Prime Mi nister. "I've been having the same week you have, 
Prime Minister. The Brockdale Bridge... the Bones and Vance murders... not 
to mention the ruckus in the West Country..." 
 
"You--er--your--I mean to say, some of your people were--were involved 
in those--those things, were they?" 
 
Fudge fixed the Prime Minister with a rather stern look. "Of course they 
were," he said, "Surely you've  realized what's going on?" 
 
"I..." hesitated the Prime Minister. 
 
It was precisely this sort of behavior  that made him dislike Fudge's visits 
so much. He was, after all, the Prime Minister and did not appreciate being 
made to feel like an ignorant schoolboy. But of course, it had been like this 
from his very first meeting with Fudge on his very first evening as Prime Minister. He remembered it as though it were yesterday and knew it would 
haunt him until his dying day. 
 
He had been standing alone in this very office, savoring the triumph that 
was his after so many years of dreami ng and scheming, when he had heard a 
cough behind him, just like tonight, and tu rned to find that ugly little portrait talking to him, announcing that the Minister of Magic was about to arrive 
and introduce himself 
 
Naturally, he had thought that the lo ng campaign and the strain of the 
election had caused him to go mad. He had been utterly terrified to find a 
portrait talking to him, though this ha d been nothing to how he felt when a 
self-proclaimed wizard had bounced out  of the fireplace and shaken his 
hand. He had remained speechless th roughout Fudge's kindly explanation 
that there were witches and wizards s till living in secret all over the world 
and his reassurances that he was not to bother his head about them as the 
Ministry of Magic took responsibilit y for the whole Wizarding community 
and prevented the non-magical population from getting wind of them. It was, 
said Fudge, a difficult job that encomp assed everything from regulations on 
responsible use of broomsticks to keeping the dragon population under 
control (the Prime Minister remembered  clutching the desk for support at 
this point). Fudge had then patted the shoulder of the s till-dumbstruck Prime 
Minister in a fatherly sort of way. 
 
"Not to worry," he had said, "it's odds-on you'll never see me again. I'll 
only bother you if there's something really serious going on our end, 
something that's likely to affect th e Muggles--the non-magical population, I 
should say. Otherwise, it's live and let li ve. And I must say, you're taking it a 
lot better than your predecessor. He tried to throw me out the window, 
thought I was a hoax pl anned by the opposition." 
 
At this, the Prime Minister had fou nd his voice at last. "You're--you're not 
a hoax, then?"  
It had been his last, desperate hope. 
 
"No," said Fudge gently. "No,  I'm afraid I'm not. Look." 
 
And he had turned the Prime Minister's teacup into a gerbil. 
 
"But," said the Prime Minister breathlessly, watching his teacup chewing 
on the corner of his next speech, "but why--why has nobody told me--?" 
 
"The Minister of Magic only reveals him--or herself to the Muggle Prime 
Minister of the day," said Fudge, poking his wand back inside his jacket. 
"We find it the best way to maintain secrecy." 
 
"But then," bleated the Prime Minister, "why hasn't a former Prime 
Minister warned me--?" 
 
At this, Fudge had actually laughed. 
 
"My dear Prime Minister, are you ever going to tell anybody?" 
 
Still chortling, Fudge had thrown some powder into the fireplace, stepped 
into the emerald flames, and vanish ed with a whooshing sound. The Prime 
Minister had stood there, quite motionle ss, and realized that he would never, 
as long as he lived, dare mention this encounter to a living soul, for who in 
the wide world would believe him? 
 The shock had taken a little while to wear  off. For a time, he had tried to 
convince himself that Fudge had indeed  been a hallucination brought on by 
lack of sleep during his grueling electi on campaign. In a vain attempt to rid 
himself of all reminders of this uncomfortable encounter, he had given the 
gerbil to his delighted niece and instruct ed his private secretary to take down 
the portrait of the ugly little man who had announced Fudge's arrival. To the Prime Minister's dismay, however, the portrait had proved impossible to 
remove. When several carpenters, a builder  or two, an art historian, and the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer had all trie d unsuccessfully to pry it from the 
wall, the Prime Minister had abandoned the attempt and simply resolved to 
hope that the thing remained motionless a nd silent for the rest of his term in 
office. Occasionally he could have sworn he saw out of the corner of his eye 
the occupant of the painting yawning, or else scratching his nose; even, once 
or twice, simply walking out of his frame and leaving nothing but a stretch 
of muddy-brown canvas behind. However, he had trained himself not to look 
at the picture very much, and always to tell himself firmly that his eyes were 
playing tricks on him when anything like this happened. 
 
Then, three years ago, on a night very  like tonight, the Prime Minister had 
been alone in his office when the portrait had once again announced the 
imminent arrival of Fudge, who had bur st out of the fireplace, sopping wet 
and in a state of considerable panic.  Before the Prime Minister could ask 
why he was dripping all over the Axmins ter, Fudge had star ted ranting about 
a prison the Prime Minister had neve r heard of, a man named "Serious" 
Black, something that sounded lik e "Hogwarts," and a boy called Harry 
Potter, none of which made the remo test sense to the Prime Minister. 
 "...I've just come from Azkaban," Fudge had panted, tipping a large 
amount of water out of the rim of his bo wler hat into his pocket. "Middle of 
the North Sea, you know, nasty flight... the dementors are in uproar"--he 
shuddered--"they've never had a breakout before. Anyway, I had to come to 
you, Prime Minister. Black's a known M uggle killer and may be planning to 
rejoin You-Know-Who... But of c ourse, you don't even know who You-
Know-Who is!" He had gazed hopelessly at the Prime Minister for a 
moment, then said, "Well, sit down, sit down, I'd better fill you in... Have a 
whiskey..." 
 
The Prime Minister rather resented being told to sit down in his own 
office, let alone offered his own whis key, but he sat nevertheless. Fudge 
pulled out his wand, conjured two large glasses full of amber liquid out of 
thin air, pushed one of them into th e Prime Minister's hand, and drew up a 
chair. 
 
Fudge had talked for more than an hou r. At one point, he had refused to 
say a certain name aloud and wrote it in stead on a piece of parchment, which 
he had thrust into the Prime Minister 's whiskey-free hand. When at last 
Fudge had stood up to leave, the Prime Minister had stood up too. 
 
"So you think that..." He had squinted do wn at the name in his left hand. 
"Lord Vol--" 
 
"He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!" snarled Fudge. 
 "I'm sorry... You think that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is still alive, 
then?" 
 
"Well, Dumbledore says he  is," said Fudge, as he had fastened his pin-
striped cloak under his chin, "but we'v e never found him. If you ask me, he's 
not dangerous unless he's got support, so it's Black we ought to be worrying 
about. You'll put out that warning, th en? Excellent. Well, I hope we don't see 
each other again, Prime Minister! Good night." 
 
But they had seen each other again.  Less than a year later a harassed-
looking Fudge had appeared out of thin ai r in the cabinet room to inform the 
Prime Minister that there had been a s pot of bother at the Kwidditch (or that 
was what it had sounded like) World C up and that several Muggles had been 
"involved," but that the Prime Minister was not to worry, the fact that You-
Know-Who's Mark had been seen agai n meant nothing; Fudge was sure it 
was an isolated incident, and the Muggle Liaison Office was dealing with all 
memory modifications as they spoke. 
 
"Oh, and I almost forgot," Fudge had added. "We're  importing three 
foreign dragons and a sphinx for the Tr iwizard Tournament, quite routine, 
but the Department for the Regulation a nd Control of Magical Creatures tells 
me that it’s down in the rule book that we have to notify you if we're bringing highly dangerous creatures into the country." 
 
"I--what--dragons?" splutte red the Prime Minister. 
 
"Yes, three," said Fudge. "And a sphinx. Well, good day to you."  
The Prime Minister had hoped beyond hope that dragons and sphinxes 
would be the worst of it, but no. Le ss than two years later, Fudge had 
erupted out of the fire yet again, this time with the news that there had been 
a mass breakout from Azkaban. 
 
"A mass breakout?" repeated th e Prime Minister hoarsely. 
 
"No need to worry, no need to worry!" shouted Fudge, already with one 
foot in the flames. "We'll have them rounded up in no time--just thought you ought to know!" 
 
And before the Prime Minister could shout, "Now, wait just one 
moment!" Fudge had vanished in  a shower of green sparks. 
 
Whatever the press and the opposition might say, the Prime Minister was 
not a foolish man. It had not escaped his notice that, despite Fudge's assurances at their first meeting, they  were now seeing rather a lot of each 
other, nor that Fudge was becoming mo re flustered with each visit. Little 
though he liked to think about the Minister of Magic (or, as he always called 
Fudge in his head, the Other Minister), the Prime Minister could not help but 
fear that the next time Fudge appeared  it would be with graver news still. 
The site, therefore, of Fudge steppi ng out of the fire once more, looking 
disheveled and fretful and sternly surp rised that the Prime Minister did not 
know exactly why he was there, wa s about the worst thing that had 
happened in the course of this extremely gloomy week. 
 "How should I know what's going on in the--er--Wizarding community?" 
snapped the Prime Minister now. "I have a country to run and quite enough 
concerns at the moment without--" 
 
"We have the same concerns," Fudge interrupted. "The Brock-dale Bridge 
didn't wear out. That wasn't really a hurricane. Those murders were not the 
work of Muggles. And Herbert Chorley's family would be safer without him. 
We are currently making arrangements to have him transferred to St. 
Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. The move should be 
affected tonight." 
 
"What do you... I'm afraid I... What?"  blustered the Prime Minister. 
 
Fudge took a great, deep breath and said, "Prime Minister, I am very sorry 
to have to tell you that he's back. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back." 
 
"Back? When you say 'back'.. . he's alive? I mean--" 
 
The Prime Minister groped in his memory for the details of that horrible 
conversation of three years previously , when Fudge had told him about the 
wizard who was feared above all othe rs, the wizard who had committed a 
thousand terrible crimes before his my sterious disappearance fifteen years 
earlier. 
 
"Yes, alive," said Fudge. "That is--I don't know--is a man alive if he can't 
be killed? I don't really understa nd it, and Dumbledore won't explain properly--but anyway, he's certainly got a body and is walking and talking 
and killing, so I suppose, for the purposes  of our discussion, yes, he's alive." 
 
The Prime Minister did not know what to say to this, but a persistent habit 
of wishing to appear well-informed on any subject that came up made him 
cast around for any details he could remember of their previous 
conversations. 
 
"Is Serious Black with--er--H e-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?" 
 
"Black? Black?" said Fudg e distractedly, turning his bowler rapidly in his 
fingers. "Sirius Black, you mean? Merlin 's beard, no. Black's dead. Turns 
out we were--er--mistaken about Black. He was innocent after all. And he 
wasn't in league with He-Who-Must -Not-Be-Named either. I mean," he 
added defensively, spinning the bowle r hat still faster, "all the evidence 
pointed--we had more than fifty eyewitnesses--but anyway, as I say, he's 
dead. Murdered, as a matter of fact. On Ministry of  Magic premises. There's 
going to be an inquiry, actually..." 
 
To his great surprise, the Prime Minister felt a fleeting stab of pity for 
Fudge at this point. It was, however , eclipsed almost immediately by a glow 
of smugness at the thought that, deficien t though he himself might be in the 
area of materializing out of fireplaces, there had never been a murder in any 
of the government departments under his charge... Not yet, anyway... 
 While the Prime Minister surreptitious ly touched the wood of his desk, 
Fudge continued, "But Blacks by-the- by now. The point is, we're at war, 
Prime Minister, and steps must be taken." 
 
"At war?" repeated the Prime Minister  nervously. "Surely that's a little bit 
of an overstatement?" 
 
"He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named has now been joined by those of his 
followers who broke out of  Azkaban in January," sa id Fudge, speaking more 
and more rapidly and twir ling his bowler so fast that it was a lime-green 
blur. "Since they have moved into the open, they have been wreaking havoc. 
The Brockdale Bridge--he did it, Prime Minister, he threatened a mass 
Muggle killing unless I stood aside for him and--" 
 
"Good grief, so it's your fault those people were killed and I'm having to 
answer questions about rusted rigging and corroded expansion joints and I 
don't know what else!" said the Prime Minister furiously. 
 
"My fault!" said Fudge, coloring up . "Are you saying you would have 
caved in to blackmail like that?" 
 
"Maybe not," said the Prime Minister , standing up and striding about the 
room, "but I would have put all my efforts into catching the blackmailer 
before he committed any such atrocity!" 
 
"Do you really think I wasn't alre ady making every effort?" demanded 
Fudge heatedly. "Every Auror in the Mi nistry was--and is--trying to find him and round up his followers, but we happe n to be talking about one of the 
most powerful wizards of all time, a wizard who has eluded capture for 
almost three decades!" 
 
"So I suppose you're going to tell me he caused the hurricane in the West 
Country too?" said the Prime Minister, his temper rising with every pace he 
took. It was infuriating to discover th e reason for all these terrible disasters 
and not to be able to tell the pub lic, almost worse than it being the 
government's fault after all. 
 
"That was no hurricane," sa id Fudge miserably. 
 
"Excuse me!" barked the Prime Mini ster, now positively stamping up and 
down. "Trees uprooted, roofs ripped off, lampposts bent, horrible injuries--" 
 
"It was the Death Eaters," said Fu dge. "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named's 
followers. And... and we su spect giant involvement." 
 
The Prime Minister stopped in his track s as though he had hit an invisible 
wall. "What involvement?" 
 
Fudge grimaced. "He used giants last time, when he wanted to go for the 
grand effect," he said. "The Office of Misinformation has been working around the clock, we've had teams of Ob liviators out trying to modify the 
memories of all the Muggles who saw wh at really happened, we've got most 
of the Department for the Regulatio n and Control of Magical Creatures 
running around Somerset, but we can't find the giant--it's been a disaster."  
"You don't say!" said the Prime Minister furiously. 
 
"I won't deny that morale is pretty  low at the Ministry," said Fudge. 
"What with all that, and then losing Amelia Bones." 
 
"Losing who?" 
 
"Amelia Bones. Head of the Depart ment of Magical Law Enforcement. 
We think He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named ma y have murdered her in person, 
because she was a very gifted witch a nd--and all the evidence was that she 
put up a real fight." 
 
Fudge cleared his throat and, with an effort, it seemed, stopped spinning 
his bowler hat. 
 
"But that murder was in the news papers," said the Prime Minister, 
momentarily diverted from his anger. "Our newspapers. Amelia Bones... it 
just said she was a middl e-aged woman who lived alone. It was a--a nasty 
killing, wasn't it? It's had rather a lo t of publicity. The po lice are baffled, you 
see." 
 
Fudge sighed. "Well, of course they are," he said. "Killed in a room that 
was locked from the inside, wasn't she? We, on the other hand, know exactly 
who did it, not that that gets us any further toward catching him. And then 
there was Emmeline Vance, maybe you didn't hear about that one--" 
 "Oh yes I did!" said the Prime Minister. "It happened just around the 
corner from here, as a matter of fact. The papers had a field day with it, 
'breakdown of law and order in the Prime Minister's backyard--'" 
 
"And as if all that wasn't enough," sa id Fudge, barely listening to the 
Prime Minister, "we've got dementors swarming all over the place, attacking 
people left, right, and center..." 
 
Once upon a happier time this sentence would have been unintelligible to 
the Prime Minister, but he was wiser now. 
 
"I thought dementors guard the prison ers in Azkaban," he said cautiously. 
 
"They did," said Fudge wearily. "But not anymore. They've deserted the 
prison and joined He-Who-Must-Not-Be- Named. I won't pretend that wasn't 
a blow." 
 
"But," said the Prime Minister, with  a sense of dawning horror, "didn't 
you tell me they're the creatures that  drain hope and happiness out of 
people?" 
 
"That's right. And they're breeding. That 's what's causing all this mist." 
 
The Prime Minister sank, weak-kneed, in to the nearest chair. The idea of 
invisible creatures swooping through th e towns and countryside, spreading 
despair and hopelessness in his voter s, made him feel quite faint. 
 "Now see here, Fudge-- you've got to do something! It's your 
responsibility as Minister of Magic!" 
 
"My dear Prime Minister, you can't honestly think I'm still Minister of 
Magic after all this? I was sacked th ree days ago! The whole Wizarding 
community has been screaming for my resignation for a fortnight. I've never 
known them so united in my whole term of office!" said Fudge, with a brave 
attempt at a smile. 
 
The Prime Minister was momentarily  lost for words. Despite his 
indignation at the position into which he  had been placed, he still rather felt 
for the shrunken-looking man sitting opposite him. 
 
"I'm very sorry," he said finally. "If there's anything I can do?" 
 
"It's very kind of you, Prime Minister, but there is nothing. I was sent here 
tonight to bring you up to date on recen t events and to introduce you to my 
successor. I rather thought he'd be here  by now, but of course, he's very busy 
at the moment, with so much going on." 
 
Fudge looked around at the portrait of  the ugly little man wearing the long 
curly silver wig, who was digging in  his ear with the point of a quill. 
Catching Fudge's eye, the portrait said, "H e'll be here in a moment, he's just 
finishing a letter to Dumbledore." 
 
"I wish him luck," said Fudge, soundi ng bitter for the first time. "I've been 
writing to Dumbledore twice a day for th e past fortnight, but he won't budge. If he'd just been prepared to persuade  the boy, I might still be... Well, maybe 
Scrimgeour will have more success." 
 
Fudge subsided into what was clearly an aggrieved silence, but it was 
broken almost immediately by the portrait, which suddenly spoke in its 
crisp, official voice. 
 
"To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Requesting a meeting. Urgent. Kindly 
respond immediately. Rufus Scri mgeour, Minister of Magic." 
 
"Yes, yes, fine," said the Prime Mi nister distractedly, and he barely 
flinched as the flames in the grate tu rned emerald green again, rose up, and 
revealed a second spinning wizard in th eir heart, disgorging him moments 
later onto the antique rug. 
 
Fudge got to his feet and, after a mo ment's hesitation, the Prime Minister 
did the same, watching the new arrival straighten up, dust down his long 
black robes, and look around. 
 
The Prime Minister's first, foolish thought was that Rufus Scrimgeour 
looked rather like an old lion. There we re streaks of gray in his mane of 
tawny hair and his bushy eyebrows; he  had keen yellowish eyes behind a 
pair of wire-rimmed spectacles and a certain rangy, loping grace even 
though he walked with a slight limp. There was an immediate impression of 
shrewdness and toughness; the Prime Mi nister thought he understood why 
the Wizarding community preferred Scri mgeour to Fudge as a leader in 
these dangerous times.  
"How do you do?" said the Prime Mini ster politely, holding out his hand. 
 
Scrimgeour grasped it briefly, his eyes scanning the room, then pulled out 
a wand from under his robes. 
 
"Fudge told you everything?" he aske d, striding over to the door and 
tapping the keyhole with his wand. The Pri me Minister heard the lock click. 
 
"Er--yes," said the Prime Minister. "A nd if you don't mind, I'd rather that 
door remained unlocked." 
 
"I'd rather not be interrupted," said  Scrimgeour shortly, "or watched," he 
added, pointing his wand at the windows,  so that the curtains swept across 
them. "Right, well, I'm a busy man, so le t's get down lo business. First of all, 
we need to discuss your security." 
 
The Prime Minister drew himself up to his fullest height and replied, "I 
am perfectly happy with the security  I've already got, thank you very--" 
 
"Well, we're not," Scrimgeour cut in. "It'll be a poor lookout for the 
Muggles if their Prime Minister gets put under the Imperius Curse. The new 
secretary in your outer office--" 
 
"I'm not getting rid of Kingsley Shacklebolt, if that's what you're 
suggesting!" said the Prime Minister hotly. "He's highly efficient, gets 
through twice the work the rest of them--"  
"That's because he's a wizard," said Scrimgeour, without a flicker of a 
smile. "A highly trained Auror, who has been assigned to you for your 
protection." 
 
"Now, wait a moment!" declared the Prime Minister. "You can't just put 
your people into my office, I decide who works for me--" 
 
"I thought you were happy with Shack lebolt?" said Scrimgeour coldly. 
 
"I am--that's to say, I was--" 
 
"Then there's no problem, is there?" said Scrimgeour. 
 
"I... well, as long as Shacklebolt's work  continues to be... er... excellent," 
said the Prime Minister lamely, but Scri mgeour barely seemed to hear him. 
 
"Now, about Herbert Chorley, your Juni or Minister," he continued. "The 
one who has been entertaining th e public by impersonating a duck." 
 
"What about him?" asked the Prime Minister. 
 
"He has clearly reacted to a poorly performed Imperius Curse," said 
Scrimgeour. "It's addled his brains, but he could still be dangerous." 
 
"He's only quacking!" said the Prime Mi nister weakly. "Surely a bit of a 
rest... Maybe go easy on the drink..."  
"A team of Healers from St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and 
Injuries are examining him as we speak.  So far he has attempted to strangle 
three of them," said Scrimgeour. "I think it best that we remove him from 
Muggle society for a while." 
 
"I... well... He'll be all ri ght, won't he?" said the Prime Minister anxiously. 
 
Scrimgeour merely shrugged, alrea dy moving back toward the fireplace. 
 
"Well, that's really all I had to  say. I will keep you posted of 
developments, Prime Minister--or, at le ast, I shall probabl y be too busy to 
come personally, in which case I shall send Fudge here. He has consented to 
stay on in an advisory capacity." 
 
Fudge attempted to smile, but was unsuccessful; he merely looked as 
though he had a toothache. Scrimg eour was already rummaging in his 
pocket for the mysterious powder that  turned the fire green. The Prime 
Minister gazed hopelessly at the pair of them for a moment, then the words he had fought to suppress all evening burst from him at last. 
 
"But for heaven's sake--you're wizards! You can do magic! Surely you 
can sort out--well--anything!" 
 
Scrimgeour turned slowly on the s pot and exchanged an incredulous look 
with Fudge, who really did manage a smil e this time as he said kindly, "The 
trouble is, the other side can do magic too, Prime Minister."  
And with that, the two wizards stepped one after the other into the bright 
green fire and vanished. 
CHAPTER 2
 
Many miles away the chilly mist that had pressed against the Prime 
Minister's windows drifted over a dirty river that wound between 
overgrown, rubbish-strewn banks. An i mmense chimney, relic of a disused 
mill, reared up, shadowy and ominous. There was no sound apart from the whisper of the black water and no sign of life apart from a scrawny fox that 
had slunk down the bank to nose hopefully at some old fish-and-chip wrappings in the tall grass. 
 
But then, with a very faint pop, a slim , hooded figure appeared out of thin 
air on the edge of the river. The fox froze, wary eyes fixed upon this strange 
new phenomenon. The figure seemed to ta ke its bearings for a few moments, 
then set off with light, quick strides, its long cloak rustling over the grass. 
 
With a second and louder pop, anot her hooded figure materialized. 
 
"Wait!" 
 
The harsh cry startled the fox, now crouching almost flat in the 
undergrowth. It leapt from its hiding  place and up the bank. There was a 
flash of green light, a yelp, and th e fox fell back to the ground, dead. 
 
The second figure turned over the animal with its toe. 
 
"Just a fox," said a woman's voice dismissively from under the hood. "I 
thought perhaps an Auror--Cissy, wait!"  
But her quarry, who had pa used and looked back at the flash of light, was 
already scrambling up the bank the fox had just fallen down. 
 
"Cissy--Narcissa--listen to me--" 
 
The second woman caught the first a nd seized her arm, but the other 
wrenched it away. 
 
"Go back, Bella!" 
 
"You must listen to me!" 
 
"I've listened already. I've made  my decision. Leave me alone!" 
 
The woman named Narcissa gained the top of the bank, where a line of 
old railings separated the river from a narrow, cobbled street. The other 
woman, Bella, followed at once. Side by side they stood looking across the 
road at the rows and rows of dila pidated brick houses, their windows dull 
and blind in the darkness. 
 
"He lives here?" asked Bella in a voice of contempt. "Here? In this 
Muggle dunghill? We must be the first of our kind ever to set foot--" 
 
But Narcissa was not listening; she ha d slipped through a gap in the rusty 
railings and was already hurrying across the road. 
 "Cissy, waitl" 
 
Bella followed, her cloak streaming behind, and saw Narcissa darting 
through an alley between the houses into  a second, almost identical street. 
Some of the streetlamps were broken; the two women were running between 
patches of light and deep darkness. Th e pursuer caught up with her prey just 
as she turned another corner, this tim e succeeding in catching hold of her 
arm and swinging her around so th at they faced each other. 
 
"Cissy, you must not do this, you can't trust him--" 
 
"The Dark Lord trusts him, doesn't he?" 
 
"The Dark Lord is... I believe... mi staken," Bella panted, and her eyes 
gleamed momentarily under her hood as she looked around to check that they were indeed alone. "In any case, we were told not to speak of the plan to anyone. This is a betray al of the Dark Lord's--" 
 
"Let go, Bella!" snarled Narcissa, and she drew a wand from beneath her 
cloak, holding it threateningly in the other's face. Bella  merely laughed. 
 
"Cissy, your own sister? You wouldn't--" 
 
"There is nothing I wouldn't do anymor e!" Narcissa breathed, a note of 
hysteria in her voice, and as she br ought down the wand like a knife, there 
was another flash of light. Bella let go of her sister's ar m as though burned. 
 "Narcissa!" 
 
But Narcissa had rushed ahead. Rubbi ng her hand, her pursuer followed 
again, keeping her distance now, as they moved deeper into the deserted 
labyrinth of brick houses. At last, Narcissa hurried up a street named 
Spinner's End, over which the towering mill chimney seemed to hover like a 
giant admonitory finger. Her footstep s echoed on the cobbles as she passed 
boarded and broken windows, until she re ached the very last house, where a 
dim light glimmered through the curtains in a downstairs room. 
 
She had knocked on the door before Bella, curs ing under her breath, had 
caught up. Together they stood waiting,  panting slightly, breathing in the 
smell of the dirty river that was carried  to them on the night breeze. After a 
few seconds, they heard movement be hind the door and it opened a crack. A 
sliver of a man could be seen looking out at them, a man with long black 
hair parted in curtains around a sallow face and black eyes. 
 
Narcissa threw back her ho od. She was so pale that she seemed to shine in 
the darkness; the long blonde hair st reaming down her back gave her the 
look of a drowned person. 
 
"Narcissa!" said the man, opening the do or a little wider, so that the light 
fell upon her and her sister too.  "What a pleasant surprise! 
 
"Severus," she said in a strained wh isper. "May I speak to you? It's 
urgent." 
 "But of course." 
 
He stood back to allow her to pass him into the house. Her still-hooded 
sister followed without invitation. 
 
"Snape," she said curtly as she passed him. 
 
"Bellatrix," he replied, his thin mouth curling into a slightly mocking 
smile as he closed the door  with a snap behind them. 
 
They had stepped directly into a ti ny sitting room, which had the feeling 
of a dark, padded cell. The walls were completely covered in books, most of 
them bound in old black or brown leather; a threadbare sofa, an old 
armchair, and a rickety table stood grouped  together in a pool of dim light 
cast by a candle-filled lamp hung from the ceiling. The place had an air of neglect, as though it was not usually inhabited. 
 
Snape gestured Narcissa to the sofa. Sh e threw off her cloak, cast it aside, 
and sat down, staring at her white and trembling hands clasped in her lap. 
Bellatrix lowered her hood more slowly. Dark as her sister was fair, with 
heavily lidded eyes and a strong jaw, she did not take her gaze from Snape 
as she moved to stand behind Narcissa. 
 
"So, what can I do for you?" Snape aske d, settling himself in the armchair 
opposite the two sisters. 
 
"We... we are alone, aren't we ?" Narcissa asked quietly.  
'Yes, of course. Well, Wormtail's here , but we're not counting vermin, are 
we?" 
 
He pointed his wand at the wall of books behind him and with a bang, a 
hidden door flew open, revealing a na rrow staircase upon which a small man 
stood frozen. 
 
"As you have clearly realized, Wormta il, we have guests," said Snape 
lazily. 
 
The man crept, hunchbacked, down the la st few steps and moved into the 
room. He had small, watery eyes, a pointed nose, and wore an unpleasant 
simper. His left hand was caressing hi s right, which looked as though it was 
encased in a bright silver glove. 
 
"Narcissa!" he said, in a squeaky voice. "And Bellatrix! How charming--" 
 
"Wormtail will get us drinks, if you'd like them," said Snape. "And then 
he will return to his bedroom." 
 
Wormtail winced as though Snape had thrown something at him. 
 
"I am not your servant!" he squeaked, avoiding Snape's eye. 
 
"Really? I was under the impression that the Dark Lord placed you here to 
assist me."  
"To assist, yes--but not to make you drinks and--and clean your house!" 
 
"I had no idea, Wormtail, that you were craving more dangerous 
assignments," said Snape silkily. "This can be easily arranged: I shall speak 
to the Dark Lord--" 
 
"I can speak to him my self if I want to!" 
 
"Of course you can," said Snape, sneer ing. "But in the meantime, bring us 
drinks. Some of the elf-made wine will do." 
 
Wormtail hesitated for a moment, looki ng as though he might argue, but 
then turned and headed through a second hidden door. They heard banging 
and a clinking of glasses. Within sec onds he was back, bearing a dusty bottle 
and three glasses upon a tray. He dropped these on the rickety table and scurried from their presence, slamming the book-covered door behind him. 
 
Snape poured out three glasses of  bl oodred wine and handed two of them 
to the sisters. Narcissa murmured a word of thanks, whilst Bellatrix said 
nothing, but continued to glower at Sn ape. This did not seem to discompose 
him; on the contrary, he looked rather amused. 
 
"The Dark Lord," he said, ra ising his glass and draining it. 
 The sisters copied him. Snape refilled their glasses. As Narcissa took her 
second drink she said in a rush, "Sever us, I'm sorry to come here like this, 
but I had to see you. I think you are the only one who can help me--" 
 
Snape held up a hand to stop her, then pointed his wand again at the 
concealed staircase door. There was a loud bang and a squeal, followed by 
the sound of Wormtail scurrying back up the stairs. 
 
"My apologies," said Snape. "He has la tely taken to liste ning at doors, I 
don't know what he means by it... You were saying, Narcissa?" 
 
She took a great, shuddering breath and started again. 
 
"Severus, I know I ought not to be here , I have been told to say nothing to 
anyone, but--" 
 
"Then you ought to hold you r tongue!" snarled Bella trix. "Particularly in 
present company!" 
 
'"Present company'?" repeated Snap e sardonically. "And what am I to 
understand by that, Bellatrix?" 
 
"That I don't trust you, Snap e, as you very well know!" 
 
Narcissa let out a noise that might have been a dry sob and covered her 
face with her hands. Snape set his gl ass down upon the table and sat back again, his hands upon the arms of his chair, smiling into Bellatrix's 
glowering face. 
 
"Narcissa, I think we ought to  hear what Bellatrix is bursting to say; it will 
save tedious interruptions. Well, continue, Bellatrix," said Snape. "Why is it 
that you do not trust me?" 
 
"A hundred reasons!" she said loudly, striding out from behind the sofa to 
slam her glass upon the table. "Where  to start! Where were you when the 
Dark Lord fell? Why did you never make  any attempt to find him when he 
vanished? What have you been doing all these years that you've lived in Dumbledore's pocket? Why did you st op the Dark Lord procuring the 
Sorcerer's Stone? Why did you not return at once when th e Dark Lord was 
reborn? Where were you a few weeks a go when we battled to retrieve the 
prophecy for the Dark Lord? And why,  Snape, is Harry Potter still alive, 
when you have had him at your mercy for five years?" 
 
She paused, her chest rising and falling rapidly, the color high in her 
cheeks. Behind her, Narcissa sat moti onless, her face still hidden in her 
hands. 
 
Snape smiled. 
 
"Before I answer you — oh yes, Bellatrix, I am going to answer! You can 
carry my words back to the others who whisper behind my back, and carry 
false tales of my treachery to the Dark  Lord! Before I answer you, I say, let 
me ask a question in turn. Do you rea lly think that the Dark Lord has not asked me each and every one of t hose questions? And do you really think 
that, had I not been able to give satis factory answers, I would be sitting here 
talking to you?" 
 
She hesitated. 
 
"I know he believes you, but..." 
 
"You think he is mistaken? Or that I have somehow hoodwinked him? 
Fooled the Dark Lord, the great est wizard, the most accomplished 
Legilimens the world has ever seen?" 
 
Bellatrix said nothing, but looked, fo r the first time, a little discomfited. 
Snape did not press the point. He picked up his drink again, sipped it, and 
continued, "You ask where I was when the Dark Lord fell. I was where he 
had ordered me to be, at  Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, 
because he wished me to spy upon Albus Dumbledore. You know, I presume, that it was on the Dark Lord 's orders that I took up the post?" 
 
She nodded almost imperceptibly and then opened her mouth, but Snape 
forestalled her. 
 
"You ask why I did not attempt to find him when he vanished. For the 
same reason that Avery, Yaxley, th e Carrows, Greyback, Lucius" — he 
inclined his head slightly to Narcissa  — "and many others did not attempt to 
find him. I believed him finished. I am  not proud of it, I was wrong, but there it is... If he had not forgiven we who lost faith at that time, he would 
have very few followers left." 
 
"He'd have me!" said Be llatrix passionately. "I, who spent many years in 
Azkaban for him!" 
 
"Yes, indeed, most admirable," said Snape in a bored voice. "Of i nurse, 
you weren't a lot of use to him in pr ison, but the gesture was undoubtedly 
fine —" 
 
"Gesture!" she shrieked; in her fury she looked slightly mad. "While I 
endured the dementors, you remained at Hogwarts, com-lortably playing 
Dumbledore's pet!" 
 
"Not quite," said Snape calmly. "He wouldn't give me the Defense 
Against the Dark Arts job, you know. Seemed to think it might, ah, bring 
about a relapse ,.. tempt me into my old ways." 
 
"This was your sacrifice for the Dark  Lord, not to teach your favorite 
subject?" she jeered. "Why did you stay there all that time, Snape? Still 
spying on Dumbledore for a master you believed dead?" 
 
"Hardly," said Snape, "although the Da rk Lord is pleased that I never 
deserted my post: I had sixteen years of  information on Dumbledore to give 
him when he returned, a rather more  useful welcome-back present than 
endless reminiscences of how unpleasant Azkaban is..." 
 "But you stayed —" 
 
"Yes, Bellatrix, I stayed,"  said Snape, betraying a hint of impatience for 
the first time. "I had a comfortable job th at I preferred to a stint in Azkaban. 
They were rounding up the Death Eaters, you know. Dumbledore's 
protection kept me out of jail; it was mo st convenient and I used it. I repeat: 
The Dark Lord does not complain that  I stayed, so I do not see why you do. 
 
"I think you next wanted to know," he  pressed on, ;i little more loudly, for 
Bellatrix showed every sign of interru pting, "why I stood between the Dark 
Lord and the Sorcerer's Stone. That is  easily answered. He did not know 
whether he could trust me . He thought, like you, that I had turned from 
faithful Death Eater to Dumbledore's st ooge. He was in a pitiable condition, 
very weak, sharing the body of a medioc re wizard. He did not dare reveal 
himself to a former ally if that ally might turn him over to Dumbledore or the Ministry. I deeply regret that he did not trust me. He would have 
returned to power three years sooner. As it was, I saw only greedy and 
unworthy Quirrell attempting to steal the stone and, I admit, I did all I could 
to thwart him." 
 
Bellatrix's mouth twisted as though she had taken an unpleasant dose of 
medicine. 
 
"But you didn't return when he came back, you didn't fly back to him at 
once when you felt the Dark Mark burn —" 
 
"Correct. I returned two hours later. I returned on Dumbledore's orders."  
"On Dumbledore's — ?" she be gan, in tones of outrage. 
 
"Think!" said Snape, impatient again.  "Think! By waiting two hours, just 
two hours, I ensured that I could remain  at Hogwarts as a spy! By allowing 
Dumbledore to think that I was only re turning to the Dark Lord's side 
because I was ordered to, I have be en able to pass information on 
Dumbledore and the Order of the Phoeni x ever since! Consider, Bellatrix: 
The Dark Mark had been growing stro nger for months. I knew he must be 
about to return, all the Death Eaters knew! I had plenty of time to think 
about what I wanted to do, to plan my  next move, to escape like Karkaroff, 
didn't I? 
 
"The Dark Lord's initial displeasure at my lateness vanished entirely, 1 
assure you, when I explained that 1 remained faithful, although Dumbledore 
thought I was his man. Ye s, the Dark Lord thought that I had left him 
forever, but he was wrong." 
 
"But what use have you been?" sneered Bellatrix. "What useful 
information have we had from you?" 
 
"My information has been conveyed di rectly to the Dark Lord," said 
Snape. "If he chooses not to share it with you —" 
 
"He shares everything with me!" said  Bellatrix, firing up at once. "He 
calls me his most loyal,  his most faithful —" 
 "Does he?" said Snape, his voice de licately inflected to suggest his 
disbelief. "Does he still, after the fiasco at the Ministry?" 
 
"That was not my fault!" sa id Bellatrix, flushing. "T he Dark Lord has, in 
the past, entrusted me with his most  precious — if Lucius hadn't —" 
 
"Don't you dare — don't you dare blame my husband!" said Narcissa, in a 
low and deadly voice, looking up at her sister. 
 
"There is no point apportioning blam e," said Snape smoothly. "What is 
done, is done." 
 
"But not by you!" said Bellatrix fu riously. "No, you were once again 
absent while the rest of us ran dangers, were you not, Snape?" 
 
"My orders were to remain behind," said Snape. "Perhaps you disagree 
with the Dark Lord, perhaps you thi nk that Dumbledore would not have 
noticed if I had joined forces with the Death Eaters to fight the Order of the 
Phoenix? And — forgive me — you sp eak of dangers... you were facing six 
teenagers, were you not?" 
 
"They were joined, as you very well know, by half of the Order before 
long!" snarled Bellatrix. "And, while we  are on the subject of the Order, you 
still claim you cannot reveal the wher eabouts of their headquarters, don't 
you?" 
 "I am not the Secret-Keeper; I cannot speak the name of the place. You 
understand how the enchantment works, I think? The Dark Lord is satisfied 
with the information I have passed him on the Order. It led, as perhaps you 
have guessed, to the recent capture an d murder of Emmeline Vance, and it 
certainly helped dispose of Sirius Bl ack, though I give you full credit for 
finishing him off." 
 
He inclined his head and toasted he r. Her expression did nor soften. 
 
"You are avoiding my last question, Sn ape. Harry Potter.  You could have 
killed him at any point in the past fi ve years. You have not done it. Why?" 
 
"Have you discussed this matter with  the Dark Lord?" asked Snape. 
 
"He... lately, we... I am asking you, Snape!" 
 
"If I had murdered Harry Potter, the Dark Lord could not have used his 
blood to regenerate, ma king him invincible —" 
 
"You claim you foresaw his use of the boy!" she jeered. 
 
"I do not claim it; I had no idea of his pl ans; I have already confessed that 
I thought the Dark Lord dead. I am merely trying to explain why the Dark 
Lord is not sorry that Potter surv ived, at least until a year ago..." 
 
"But why did you keep him alive?" 
 "Have you not understood me? It was only Dumbledore's protection that 
was keeping me out of Azkaban! Do you disagree that murdering his 
favorite student might have turned him against me? But there was more to it 
than that. I should remind you that when Potter first arrived at Hogwarts 
there were still many stories circulating about him, rumors that he himself 
was a great Dark wizard, which was how  he had survived the Dark Lord's 
attack. Indeed, many of th e Dark Lords old followers thought Potter might 
be a standard around which we could all rally once more. I was curious, 1 
admit it, and not at all inclined to murder him the moment he set fool in the 
castle. 
 
"Of course, it became apparent to me  very quickly that he had no 
extraordinary talent at all. He has fought his way out of a number of tight 
corners by a simple combin ation of sheer luck and mo re talented friends. He 
is mediocre to the last degree, though as obnoxious and self-satisfied as was 
his father before him. I have done my utmost to have him thrown out of 
Hogwarts, where I believe he scarcely belongs, but kill him, or allow him to 
be killed in front of me? I would have been a fool to risk it with Dumbledore close at hand." 
 
"And through all this we are suppose d to believe Dumbledore has never 
suspected you?" asked Bellatrix. "He has no idea of your true allegiance, he 
trusts you implicitly still?" 
 
"I have played my part well, " said Snape. "And you overlook 
Dumbledore's greatest weakness: He has to believe the best of people. I spun 
him a tale of deepest remo rse when I joined his staff, fresh from my Death Eater days, and he embrace d me with open arms — though, as I say, never 
allowing me nearer the Da rk Arts than he could help. Dumbledore has been 
a great wizard — oh yes, he has," (for Bellatrix had made a scathing noise), 
"the Dark Lord acknowledges it. I am pleased to sa y, however, that 
Dumbledore is growing old. The duel wi th the Dark Lord last month shook 
him. He has since sustained a serious in jury because his reactions are slower 
than they once were. But through all these years, he has never stopped 
trusting Severus Snape, and therein lies my great value to the Dark Lord." 
 
Bellatrix still looked unhappy, though she appeared unsure how best to 
attack Snape next. Taking advantage of  her silence, Snape turned to her 
sister. 
 
"Now... you came to ask me for help, Narcissa?" 
 
Narcissa looked up at him, her face eloquent with despair. 
 
"Yes, Severus. I — I think you are the only one who can help me, I have 
nowhere else to turn. Lucius is in jail and..." 
 
She closed her eyes and two large t ears seeped from beneath her eyelids. 
 
"The Dark Lord has forbi dden me to speak of it," Narcissa continued, her 
eyes still closed. "He wishes none to k now of the plan. It is... very secret. 
But —" 
 "If he has forbidden it, you ought not to  speak," said Snape at once. "The 
Dark Lord's word is law." 
 
Narcissa gasped as thoug h he had doused her with  cold water. Bellatrix 
looked satisfied for the first time since she had entered the house. 
 
"There!" she said triumphantly to her sister. "Even Snape says so: You 
were told not to talk, so hold your silence!" 
 
But Snape had gotten to his feet and strode to the small window, peered 
through the curtains at the deserted st reet, then closed them again with a 
jerk. He turned around to face Narcissa, frowning. 
 
"It so happens that I know of the plan,"  he said in a low voice. "I am one 
of the few the Dark Lord has told. Ne vertheless, had I not been in on the 
secret, Narcissa, you would have been gu ilty of great treachery to the Dark 
Lord." 
 
"I thought you must know about it!" sa id Narcissa, breathing more freely. 
"He trusts you so, Severus..." 
 
"You know about the plan?" said Bella trix, her fleeting expression of 
satisfaction replaced by a l ook of outrage. "You know?" 
 
"Certainly," said Snape. "But what help do you require,  Nar-cissa? If you 
are imagining I can persuade the Dark Lo rd to change his mind, I am afraid 
there is no hope, none at all."  
"Severus," she whispered, tears sliding down her pale cheeks. "My son... 
my only son..." 
 
"Draco should be proud," said Bellatrix indifferently. "The Dark I ,ord is 
granting him a great honor. And I will sa y this for Draco: I Ic isn't shrinking 
away from his duty, he seems glad of a chance to prove himself, excited at 
the prospect —" 
 
Narcissa began to cry in earnest, gazing beseechingly all the while at 
Snape. 
 
"That's because he is sixteen and ha s no idea what lies in store! Why, 
Severus? Why my son? It  is too dangerous! This is vengeance lor Lucius's 
mistake, I know it!" 
 
Snape said nothing. He looked away from the sight of her tears as though 
they were indecent, but he could not pretend not to hear her. 
 
"That's why he's chosen Draco, is n't it?" she persisted. "To punish 
Lucius?" 
 
"If Draco succeeds," said Snape, still looking away from her, "he will be 
honored above all others." 
 
"But he won't succeed!" sobbed Narc issa. "How can he, when the Dark 
Lord himself— ?"  
Bellatrix gasped; Narcissa s eemed to lose her nerve. 
 
"I only meant... that nobody has yet succeeded... Severus... please... You 
are, you have always been, Draco's favorite teacher... You are Lucius's old 
friend... I beg you... You are the Dark Lord's favorite, his most trusted 
advisor... Will you speak to him, persuade him — ?" 
 
"The Dark Lord will not be persuaded, and I am not stupid enough to 
attempt it," said Snape flatly. "I cannot  pretend that the Dark Lord is not 
angry with Lucius. Lucius was supposed  to be in charge. He got himself 
captured, along with how many others, and failed to retrie ve the prophecy 
into the bargain. Yes, the Dark Lord is angry, Narcissa, very angry indeed." 
 
"Then I am right, he has chosen Draco in revenge!" choked Narcissa. "He 
does not mean him to succeed, he wants him to be killed trying!" 
 
When Snape said nothing, Narcissa seemed to lose what little self-
restraint she still possesse d. Standing up, she staggered to Snape and seized 
the front of his robes. Her face close to  his, her tears falling onto his chest, 
she gasped, "You could do it. You coul d do it instead of Draco, Severus. 
You would succeed, of cour se you would, and he would reward you beyond 
all of us —" 
 
Snape caught hold of her wrists and removed her clutching hands. 
Looking down into her tearstained face, he said slowly, "He intends me to 
do it in the end, I think. But he is dete rmined that Draco should try first. You see, in the unlikely event that Draco su cceeds, I shall be able to remain at 
Hogwarts a little longer, fulfilli ng my useful role as spy." 
 
"In other words, it doesn't matter  to him if Draco is killed!" 
 
"The Dark Lord is very angry," rep eated Snape quietly. "He failed to hear 
the prophecy. You know as well as I do,  Narcissa, that he does not forgive 
easily." 
 
She crumpled, falling at his feet, sobbing and moaning on the (loor. 
 
"My only son... my only son..." 
 
"You should be proud!" said Bellatrix  ruthlessly. "If I had sons, I would 
be glad to give them up to the service of the Dark Lord!" 
 
Narcissa gave a little scre am of despair and clutched at her long blonde 
hair. Snape stooped, seized her by the arms, lifted her up, iind steered her 
back onto the sofa. He then poured her more wine iind forced the glass into 
her hand. 
 
"Narcissa, that's enough. Dri nk this. Listen to me." 
 
She quieted a little; slopping wine down herself, she took a shaky sip. 
 
"It might be possible... fo r me to help Draco." 
 She sat up, her face pa per-white, her eyes huge. 
 
"Severus — oh, Severus — you would help him? Would you look after 
him, see he comes to no harm?" 
 
"I can try." 
 
She flung away her glass; it skidded acr oss the table as she slid off the 
sofa into a kneeling position at Snape's fe et, seized his hand in both of hers, 
and pressed her lips to it. 
 
"If you are there to protect him... Severus, will you swear it? Will you 
make the Unbreakable Vow?" 
 
"The Unbreakable Vow?" 
 
Snape's expression was blank, unread able. Bellatrix, however, let out a 
cackle of triumphant laughter. 
 
"Aren't you listening, Narcissa? Oh, he 'll try, I'm sure... The usual empty 
words, the usual slithering out of acti on... oh, on the Dark Lord's orders, of 
course!" 
 
Snape did not look at Bellatrix. His black  eyes were fixed upon Narcissa's 
tear-filled blue ones as she c ontinued to clutch his hand. 
 "Certainly, Narcissa, I shall make th e Unbreakable Vow," he said quietly. 
"Perhaps your sister will consent to be our Bonder." 
 
Bellatrix's mouth fell open. Snape lowered himself so that he was 
kneeling opposite Narcissa. Beneath Be llatrix's astonished gaze, they 
grasped right hands. 
 
"You will need your wand, Bella trix," said Snape coldly. 
 
She drew it, still looking astonished. 
 
"And you will need to move a little closer," he said. 
 
She stepped forward so that she stood over them, and placed the tip of her 
wand on their linked hands. 
 
Narcissa spoke. 
 
"Will you, Severus, watch ove r my son, Draco, as he attempts ta fulfill the 
Dark Lord's wishes?" 
 
"I will," said Snape. 
 
A thin tongue of brilliant flame issu ed from the wand and wound its way 
around their hands like a red-hot wire. 
 
"And will you, to the best of your ability, protect him from harm?"  
"I will," said Snape. 
 
A second tongue of flame shot from the wand and interlinked with the 
first, making a fine, glowing chain. 
 
"And, should it prove necessary... if it seems Draco will fail..." whispered 
Narcissa (Snape's hand tw itched within hers, but he  did not draw away), 
"will you carry out the deed that th e Dark Lord has ordered Draco to 
perform?" 
 
There was a moment's silence. Bella trix watched, her wand upon their 
clasped hands, her eyes wide. 
 
"I will," said Snape. 
 
Bellatrix's astounded face glowed red in  the blaze of a third unique flame, 
which shot from the wand, twisted with  the others, and bound itself thickly 
around their clasped hands, like a fiery snake.  
CHAPTER 3
 
Harry Potter was snoring loudly. He ha d been sitting in a chair beside his 
bedroom window for the best part of fo ur hours, staring out at the darkening 
street, and had finally fallen asleep with one side of his face pressed against 
the cold win-dowpane, his glasses as kew and his mouth wide open. The 
misty fug his breath had left on the wind ow sparkled in the orange glare of 
the streetlamp outside, and the artificial li ght drained his face of all color, so 
that he looked ghostly beneath hi s shock of untidy black hair. 
 
The room was strewn with various possessions and a good smattering of 
rubbish. Owl feathers, apple cores, a nd sweet wrappers littered the floor, a 
number of spellbooks lay higgledy-pi ggledy among the tangled robes on his 
bed, and a mess of news papers sat in a puddle of light on his desk. The 
headline of one blared: 
 
HARRY POTTER: THE CHOSEN ONE? 
 
Rumors continue to fly about the my sterious recent disturbance at the 
Ministry of Magic, during which He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was sighted once more. 
 
"We're not allowed to talk about it,  don't ask me anything" said one 
agitated Obliviator, who refuse d to give his name as he  left the Ministry last 
night. 
 Nevertheless, highly placed sources w ithin the Ministry have confirmed 
that the disturbance centered on  the fabled Hall of Prophecy. 
 
Though Ministry spokeswizards have hith erto refused even to confirm the 
existence of such a place, a growi ng number of the Wizarding community 
believe that the Death Eaters now serving sentences in Azkaban for trespass 
and attempted theft were attempting to steal a prophecy. The nature of that 
prophecy is unknown, although speculati on is rife that it concerns Harry 
Potter, the only person ever known to ha ve survived the Killing Curse, and 
who is also known to have been at th e Ministry on the night in question. 
Some are going so far as to call Potter "the Chosen One," believing that the 
prophecy names him as the only one who will be able to rid us of He-Who-
Must-No t-Be-Named. 
 
The current whereabouts of the prop hecy, if it exists, are unknown, 
although {ctd. page2, column 5) 
 
A second newspaper lay beside die fi rst. This one bore die headline: 
 
SCRIMGEOUR SU CCEEDS FUDGE 
 
Most of this front page was taken up with a large black-and-white picture 
of a man with a lionlike mane of thic k hair and a rather ravaged face. The 
picture was moving — the man was waving at the ceiling. 
 
Rufus Scrimgeour, previously Head of the Auror office in the Department 
of Magical Law Enforcemen t, has succeeded Cornelius Fudge as Minister of Magic. The appointment has largely b een greeted with enthusiasm by the 
Wizardmg community, though rumors of a rift between the new Minister 
and Albus Dumbledore, newly reinstated  Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, 
surfaced within hours of Sc rimgeour taking office. 
 
Scrimgeours representatives admitted that he had met with Dumbledore at 
once upon taking possession of the top j ob, but refused to comment on the 
topics under discussion. Albus Dumble dore is known to  (ctd. page 3,  
column 2) 
 
To the left of this paper sat another, which had been folded so that a story 
bearing the title ministry guarantees  students' sapety was visible. 
 
Newly appointed Minister of Magic,  Rufus Scrimgeour, spoke today of 
the tough new measures taken by his Mi nistry to ensure the safety of 
students returning to Hogwarts School  of Witchcraft and Wizardry this 
autumn. 
 
"For obvious reasons, the Ministry w ill not be going into detail about its 
stringent new security plans," said  the Minister, although an insider 
confirmed that measures include defe nsive spells and charms, a complex 
array of countercurses, and a small task force of Aurors dedicated solely to 
the protection of Hogwarts School. 
 
Most seem reassured by the new Mini ster's tough stand on student safety. 
Said Mrs. Augusta Longbottom, "My grandson, Neville — a good friend of Harry Potter's, incidentally, who fought the Death Eaters alongside him at 
the Ministry in June and — 
 
But the rest of this story was obscured by the large birdcage.standing on 
top of it. Inside it was a magnificent snowy owl. Her amber eyes surveyed 
the room imperiously, her head swiveling occasionally to gaze at her snoring 
master. Once or twice she clicked her beak impatiently, but Harry was too 
deeply asleep to hear her. 
 
A large trunk stood in the very middle of the room. Its lid was open; it 
looked expectant; yet it was almost empty but for a residue of old 
underwear, sweets, empty ink bottle s, and broken quills that 
 
coated the very bottom. Nearby, on the floor, lay a purple leaflet 
emblazoned with the words: 
 
----ISSUED ON BEHALF OF---- 
The Ministry of Magic 
PROTECTING YOUR HOME AND FAMILY AGAINST DARK 
FORCES 
 
The Wizarding community is currently  under threat from an organization 
calling itself the Death Eaters. Observ ing the following simple security 
guidelines will help protect you, your family, and your home from attack. 
 
1.  You are advised not to leave the house alone. 
 2.  Particular care should be taken dur ing the hours of darkness. Wherever 
possible, arrange to complete j ourneys before night has fallen. 
 
3.  Review the security arrangements around your house, making sure that 
all family members are aware of  emergency   measures   such   as   Shield   
and   Disillusionment Charms, and, in the case of underage family members, 
Side-Along-Apparition. 
 
4.  Agree on security questions with close friends and family so as to 
detect Death Eaters mas querading as others by use of the Polyjuice Potion 
(see page 2). 
 
5.  Should you feel that a family me mber, colleague, friend, or neighbor is 
acting in a strange manner, contact th e Magical Law Enforcement Squad at 
once. They may have been put under the Imperius Curse (see page 4). 
 
6.  Should the Dark Mark appear  over any dwelling place or other 
building, DO NOT ENTER, but contact  the Auror office immediately. 
 
7.  Unconfirmed sightings suggest that the Death Eaters may now be 
using Inferi (see page 10). Any sighting of an In-ferius, or encounter with 
same, should be reported to the Ministry IMMEDIATELY. 
 
Harry grunted in his sleep and his f ace slid down the window an inch or 
so, making his glasses still more lopsided , but he did not wake up. An alarm 
clock, repaired by Harry several years ago, ticked loudly on the sill, showing 
one minute to eleven. Beside it, held in  place by Harry's relaxed hand, was a piece of parchment covered in thin, sl anting writing. Harry had read this 
letter so often since its arrival thr ee days ago that although it had been 
delivered in a tightly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat. 
 
Dear Harry, 
 
If it is convenient to you, I shall call at number four, Privet Drive this 
coming Friday at eleven p.m. to esco rt you to the Burrow, where you have 
been invited to spend the rema inder of your school holidays. 
 
If you are agreeable, I should also be glad of your assistance in a matter 
to which I hope to attend on the way to  the Burrow. I shall explain this 
more fully when I see you. 
 
Kindly send your answer by return of this owl. Hoping to see you this Friday, 
 
I am yours most sincerely, 
 
Albus Dumbledore 
 
Though he already knew it by heart, Ha rry had been stealing glances at 
this missive every few minutes since seven o'clock that evening, when he 
had first taken up his position besi de his bedroom window, which had a 
reasonable view of both ends of Prive t Drive. He knew it was pointless to 
keep rereading Dumbledore's words; Harry had sent back his "yes" with the 
delivering owl, as requested, and a ll he could do now was wait: Either 
Dumbledore was going to come, or he was not. 
 
But Harry had not packed. It just seemed  too good to be true that he was 
going to be rescued from the Dursleys  after a mere fortnight of their 
company. He could not shrug off the fe eling that something was going to go wrong — his reply to Dumbledore's letter might have gone astray; 
Dumbledore could be prevented from co llecting him; the letter might turn 
out not to be from Dumbledore at all, but  a trick or joke or trap. Harry had 
not been able to face packing and then being let down and having to unpack 
again. The only gesture he had made to  the possibility of a journey was to 
shut his snowy owl, Hedw ig, safely in her cage. 
 
The minute hand on the alarm clock reached the number twelve and, at 
that precise moment, the street-l amp outside the window went out. 
 
Harry awoke as though the sudden da rkness were an alarm. Hastily 
straightening his glasses and unsticking hi s cheek from the glass, he pressed 
his nose against the window instead and squinted down at the pavement. A 
tall figure in a long, billowing cloa k was walking up the garden path. 
 
Harry jumped up as though he had received an electric shock, knocked 
over his chair, and started snatching anything and everything within reach 
from the floor and throwing it into the trunk. Then as he lobbed a set of robes, two spellbooks, and a packet of clasps across the room, the doorbell 
rang. Downstairs in the living room  his Uncle Vernon shouted, "Who the 
blazes is calling at this lime of night?" 
 
Harry froze with a brass telescope in one hand and a pair of trainers in the 
other. He had completely  forgotten to warn the Dursleys that Dumbledore 
might be coming. Feeling both panicky mid close to laughter, he clambered 
over the trunk and wrenched open his bedr oom door in time to hear a deep voice say, "Good evening. You must be  Mr. Dursley. I daresay Harry has 
told you I would be coming for him?" 
 
Harry ran down the stairs two at a ti me, coming to an abrupt halt several 
steps from the bottom, as long experien ce had taught him to remain out of 
arm's reach of his uncl e whenever possible. There in the doorway stood a 
tall, thin man with waist-length silver hair and beard. Half-moon spectacles 
were perched on his crooked nose, and he was wearing a long black 
traveling cloak and.1 pointed hat. Vernon Dursley, whose mustache was 
quite as bushy as Dumbledore's, t hough black, and who was wearing a puce 
dress-ing gown, was staring at the visi tor as though he c ould not believe his 
tiny eyes. 
 
"Judging by your look of stunned disb elief, Harry did not warn you that I 
was coming," said Dumbledore pleasantly. "However, let us assume that you 
have invited me warmly into your hous e. It is unwise to linger overlong on 
doorsteps in these troubled times." 
 
He stepped smartly over the threshol d and closed the front door behind 
him. 
 
"It is a long time since my last visit," said Dumbledore, peering down his 
crooked nose at Uncle Vernon. "I must say, your agapanthus are flourishing." 
 
Vernon Dursley said nothing at all. Ha rry did not doubt that speech would 
return to him, and soon — the vein  pulsing in his uncles temple was reaching danger point — but something about Dumbledore seemed to have 
robbed him temporarily of breath. It might have been the blatant 
wizardishness of his appearance, but it mi ght, too, have been that even Uncle 
Vernon could sense that here was a man whom it would be very difficult to 
bully. 
 
"Ah, good evening Harry," said Dumbledore, looking up at him through 
his half-moon glasses with a most satisfied expression. "Excellent, 
excellent." 
 
These words seemed to rous e Uncle Vernon. It was cl ear that as far as he 
was concerned, any man w ho could look at Harry and say "excellent" was a 
man with whom he could never see eye to eye. 
 
"I don't mean to be rude —" he began,  in a tone that threatened rudeness 
in every syllable. 
 
"--yet, sadly, accidental rudeness o ccurs alarmingly often," Dumbledore 
finished the sentence gravely. "Best to say nothing at all, my dear man. Ah, 
and this must be Petunia." 
 
The kitchen door had opened, and th ere stood Harry's aunt, wearing 
rubber gloves and a housecoat over her nightdress, clearly halfway through 
her usual pre-bedtime wipe-down of all the kitchen surfaces. Her rather 
horsey face registered nothing but shock.  
 "Albus Dumbledore," said Dumbledor e, when Uncle Vernon failed to 
effect an introduction. "We have co rresponded, of course ." Harry thought 
this an odd way of reminding Aunt Pe tunia that he had once sent her an 
exploding letter, but Aunt Petunia did not challenge the term. "And this must 
be your son, Dudley?" 
 
Dudley had that moment peered round the living room door, his large, 
blond head rising out of the stri py collar of his pajamas looked oddly 
disembodied, his mouth gaping in astonishment and I car. Dumbledore 
waited a moment or two, apparently to see whether any of the Dursleys were 
going to say anything, but as th e •.ilcncc stretched on he smiled. 
 
"Shall we assume that you have i nvited me into your sitting room?" 
 
Dudley scrambled out of the way as  Dumbledore passed him. I lurry, still 
clutching the telescope and trainers, jump ed the last lew stairs and followed 
Dumbledore, who had settled himself in i he armchair nearest the fire and 
was taking in the surroundings wilh an  expression of be nign interest. He 
looked quite extraordinarily out of place. 
 
"Aren't —- aren't we leaving, sir?" Harry asked anxiously. 
 
"Yes, indeed we are, but there are a few matters we need to dis-i us.s 
first," said Dumbledore. "And I would pr efer not to do so in (he open. We 
shall trespass upon your aunt and unc le's hospitality onl y a little longer." 
 
"You will, will you?"  
Vernon Dursley had entered the room , Petunia at his shoulder, iind 
Dudley skulking behind them both. 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore simply, "I shall." 
 
He drew his wand so rapidly that Harry  barely saw it; with a casual flick, 
the sofa zoomed forward and knocked the knees out from under all three of 
the Dursleys so that they collapsed upon it in a heap. Another flick of the 
wand and the sofa zoomed back  to its original position. 
 
"We may as well be comfortabl e," said Dumbledore pleasantly. 
 
As he replaced his wand in his poc ket, Harry saw that his hand was 
blackened and shriveled; it looked as  though his flesh had been burned 
away.   ¦¦   ¦   •  <¦'•¦ 
 
"Sir — what happened to your — ?" 
 
"Later, Harry," said Dumb ledore. "Please sit down." 
 
Harry took the remaining armchair, choosing not to look at the Dursleys, 
who seemed stunned into silence. 
 
"I would assume that you were going to offer me refreshment," 
Dumbledore said to Uncle Vernon, "but  the evidence so far suggests that 
that would be optimistic to the point of foolishness."  
A third twitch of the wand, and a dusty bottle and five glasses appeared in 
midair. The bottle tipped and poured a generous measure of honey-colored 
liquid into each of the glasses, whic h then floated to each person in the 
room. 
 
"Madam Rosmertas finest oak-mature d mead," said Dumbledore, raising 
his glass to Harry, who caught hold of  his own and sipped. He had never 
tasted anything like it before, but enj oyed it immensely. The Dursleys, after 
quick, scared looks at one another, trie d to ignore their gl asses completely, a 
difficult feat, as they were nudging them gently on the sides of their heads. 
Harry could not suppress a suspicion th at Dumbledore was rather enjoying 
himself. 
 
"Well, Harry," said Dumbledore, turn ing toward him, "a difficulty has 
arisen which I hope you will be able to solve for us. By us , I mean the Order 
of the Phoenix. But first of all I must tell you that Sirius's will was 
discovered a week ago and that he  left you every-ihing he owned." 
 
Over on the sofa, Uncle Vernons head turned, but Harry did not look at 
him, nor could he think of anything to say except, "Oh. Right." 
 
"This is, in the main, fairly straightforward," Dumbledore went on. "You 
add a reasonable amount of gold to your account at (iringotts, and you 
inherit all of Sirius's personal possessions. The slightly problematic part of 
the legacy —" 
 "His godfather's dead?" said Uncl e Vernon loudly from the sofa. 1 
)umbledore and Harry both turned to look at him. The glass of mead was 
now knocking quite insistently on the side  of Vernons head; he attempted to 
beat it away. "He's dead? His godfather?" 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore. He did not as k Harry why he had not confided in 
the Dursleys. "Our problem," he conti nued to Harry, as if there had been no 
interruption, "is that Sirius also le ft you number twelve, Grimmauld Place." 
 
"He's been left a house?" said Un cle Vernon greedily, his small eyes 
narrowing, but nobody answered him. 
 
"You can keep using it as headquarter s," said Harry. "I don't care. You 
can have it, I don't really want it." Ha rry never wanted to set foot in number 
twelve, Grimmauld Place again if he co uld help it. He thought he would be 
haunted forever by the memory of Si rius prowling its dark musty rooms 
alone, imprisoned within the place he ha d wanted so desperately to leave. 
 
"That is generous," said Dumbledore. "We have, however, vacated the 
building temporarily." 
 
"Why?"   
 
"Well," said Dumbledore, ignoring th e mutterings of Uncle Vernon, who 
was now being rapped smartly over the h ead by the persistent glass of mead, 
"Black family tradition decreed that  the house was handed down the direct 
line, to the next male with the name of 'Black.' Sirius was the very last of the line as his younger brother, Regulus , predeceased him and both were 
childless. While his will makes it perfectly  plain that he wants you to have 
the house, it is nevertheless possible th at some spell or enchantment has 
been set upon the place to ensure th at it cannot be owned by anyone other 
than a pureblood." 
 
A vivid image of the shrieking, spitting portrait of Sirius's mother that 
hung in the hall of number twelve, Gri mmauld Place flashed into Harry's 
mind. "I bet there has," he said. 
 
"Quite," said Dumbledore. "And if su ch an enchantment exists, then the 
ownership of the house is most likely to pass to the eldest of Sirius's living 
relatives, which would mean his cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange." 
 
Without realizing what he was doi ng, Harry sprang to his feet; the 
telescope and trainers in his lap rolle d across the floor. Bellatrix Lestrange, 
Sirius's killer, inherit his house? 
 
"No," he said. 
 
"Well, obviously we would prefer that she didn't get it either," said 
Dumbledore calmly. "The situation is fraught with complications. We do not 
know whether the enchantments we ourselves have placed upon it, for example, making it Unplottable, will hold now that owne rship has passed 
from Sirius's hands. It might be that Be llatrix will arrive on the doorstep at 
any moment. Naturally we had to move  out until such time as we have 
clarified the position,"  
"But how are you going to find out  if I'm allowed to own it?" 
 
"Fortunately," said Dumbledore, "there is a simple test." 
 
He placed his empty glass on a small ta ble beside his chair, but before he 
could do anything else, Uncle Ver non shouted, "Will you get these ruddy 
things off us?" 
 
Harry looked around; all three of the Dursleys were cowering with their 
arms over their heads as their glasse s bounced up and down on their skulls, 
their contents flying everywhere. 
 
"Oh, I'm so sorry," said Dumbledor e politely, and he raised his wand 
again. All three glasses vanished. "But it would have been  better manners to 
drink it, you know." 
 
It looked as though Uncle Vernon was bursting with any number of 
unpleasant retorts, but he merely shrank back into the cushions with Aunt 
Petunia and Dudley and said nothing , keeping his small piggy eyes on 
Dumbledore's wand. 
 
"You see," Dumbledore said, turning b ack to Harry and again speaking as 
though Uncle Vernon had not uttered, "if you have indeed inherited the 
house, you have also inherited —" 
 He flicked his wand for a fifth time.  There was a loud crack, and a house-
elf appeared, with a snout for a no se, giant bat's ears, and enormous 
bloodshot eyes, crouching on the Dursleys ' shag carpet and covered in grimy 
rags. Aunt Petunia let out a hair-rais ing shriek; nothing this filthy had 
entered her house in living memory. Dudl ey drew his large, bare, pink feet 
off the floor and sat with them raised  almost above his head, as though he 
thought the creature might run up his pajama trousers, and Uncle Vernon 
bellowed, "What the hell is that?" 
 
"Kreacher," finished Dumbledore. 
 
"Kreacher won’t, Kreacher won't, Kreacher won’t!" croaked the house-
elf, quite as loudly as Uncle Vernon,  stamping his long, gnarled feet and 
pulling lii.s ears. "Kreacher belongs to Miss Bellatrix, oh yes, Kreacher 
belongs to the Blacks, Kreacher want s his new mistress, Kreacher won't go 
to the Potter brat, Kreacher  won't, won't, won’t —" 
 
"As you can see, Harry," said Du mbledore loudly, over Kreacher's 
continued croaks of "wont, won't, won't," "Kreacher is showing a certain 
reluctance to pass into your ownership." 
 
"I don't care," said Harry again, looking with disgust at the writhing, 
stamping house-elf. "I don't want him." 
 
"Won't, won’t, won't, won't —" 
 "You would prefer him to pass into th e ownership of Bellatrix Lestrange? 
Bearing in mind that he has lived at the headquarters of the Order of the 
Phoenix for the past year?" 
 
"Won't, won't, won’t, won't —" 
 
Harry stared at Dumbledore. He knew that Kreacher could not be 
permitted to go and live with Bellatrix  Lestrange, but the idea of owning 
him, of having responsibility for the creature that had betrayed Sirius, was 
repugnant. 
 
"Give him an order," said Dumbledor e. "If he has passed into your 
ownership, he will have to obey. If not, then we shall have to think of some 
other means of keeping him from his rightful mistress." 
 
"Won't, won't, won’t, WON'T!" 
 
Kreacher's voice had risen to a scream . Harry could think of nothing to 
say, except, "Kreacher, shut up!" 
 
It looked for a moment as though Kreacher was going to choke. He 
grabbed his throat, his mouth still work ing furiously, his ey es bulging. After 
a few seconds of frantic gulping, he threw himself face forward onto the 
carpet (Aunt Petunia whimpered) and beat  the floor with his hands and feet, 
giving himself over to a violent, but entirely silent, tantrum. 
 "Well, that simplifies matters," said Dumbledore cheerfully. "It means 
that Sirius knew what he was doing. You are the rightful owner of number 
twelve, Grimmauld Place and of Kreacher." 
 
"Do I — do I have to keep him with me?" Harry asked, aghast, us 
Kreacher thrashed around at his feet. 
 
"Not if you don't want to," said  Dumbledore. "If I might make ii 
suggestion, you could send him to Hogwarts to work in the kitchen there. In 
that way, the other house-elves could keep an eye on him." 
 
"Yeah," said Harry in relief, "yeah, I'll do that. Er — Kreacher — I want 
you to go to Hogwarts and work in th e kitchens there with the other house-
elves." 
 
Kreacher, who was now lying flat on hi s back with his arms and legs in 
the air, gave Harry one upside-down look of deepest loathing and, with 
another loud crack, vanished. 
 
"Good," said Dumbledore. "There is al so the matter of the hip-pogriff, 
Buckbeak. Hagrid has been looking after him since Sirius died, but 
Buckbeak is yours now, so if you would prefer to make different 
arrangements —" 
 
"No," said Harry at once, "he can st ay with Hagrid. I think Buckbeak 
would prefer that." 
 "Hagrid will be delighted," said Dumbledore, smiling. "He was thrilled to 
see Buckbeak again. Incidentally, we have decided, in the interests of 
Buckbeak's safety, to rechristen hi m 'Witherwings' for the time being, 
though I doubt that the Ministry would ever guess he is the hippogriff they 
once sentenced to death. Now, Harry, is your trunk packed?" 
 
Erm... 
 
"Doubtful that I would turn up?" Dumbledore suggested shrewdly. 
 
"I'll just go and — er — finish off," said Harry hastily, hurrying to pick up 
his fallen telescope and trainers. 
 
It took him a little over ten minutes to track down everything he needed; 
at last he had managed to extract hi s Invisibility Cloak from under the bed, 
screwed the top back on his jar of color-c hange ink, and forced the lid of his 
trunk shut on his cauldron. Then, heavi ng his trunk in one hand and holding 
Hedwig's cage in the other, he made his way back downstairs, 
 
He was disappointed to discover th at Dumbledore was not waiting in the 
hall, which meant that he had to return to the living room. 
 
Nobody was talking. Dumbledore was humming quietly, apparently quite 
at his ease, but the atmosphere was thicker than cold custard, and Harry did 
not dare look at the Dursleys as he  said, "Professor — I'm ready now." 
 "Good," said Dumbledore. "Just one last  thing, then." And he turned to 
speak to the Dursleys once more. 
 
"As you will no doubt be aware, Harry comes of age in a years time —" 
 
"No," said Aunt Petunia, speaking fo r the first time since Dumbledore's 
arrival. 
 
"I'm sorry?" said Dumbledore politely. 
 
"No, he doesn't. He's a month younge r than Dudley, and Dudders doesn't 
turn eighteen until the year after next." 
 
"Ah," said Dumbledore pleasantly, "but  in the Wizarding world, we come 
of age at seventeen." 
 
Uncle Vernoii muttered, "Preposter ous," but Dumbledore ignored him, 
 
"Now, as you already know, the wizard called Lord Voldemort Was 
returned to this country. The Wizarding community is currently in a state of 
open warfare. Harry, whom Lo rd Voldemort has already attempted to kill on 
a number of occasions, is in even gr eater danger now than the day when I 
left him upon your doorstep fifteen year s ago, with a letter explaining about 
his parents' murder and expressing th e hope that you would care for him ;is 
though he were your own." 
 Dumbledore paused, and although his voi ce remained light and calm, and 
he gave no obvious sign of anger, Harry felt a kind of chill emanating from 
him and noticed that the Dursleys dr ew very slightly closer together. 
 
"You did not do as I asked.  You have never treated Harry as a son. He has 
known nothing but neglect and often crue lty at your hands. The best that can 
be said is that he has at least escaped the appalling damage you have 
inflicted upon the unfortun ate boy sitting between you." 
 
Both Aunt Petunia and Uncle Ver non looked around instinc-lively, as 
though expecting to see someone other than Dudley squeezed between them. 
 
"Us — mistreat Dudders? What d'you — ?" began Uncle Vernon 
furiously, but Dumbledore raised his ri nger for silence, a silence which fell 
as though he had struck Uncle Vernon dumb. 
 
"The magic I evoked fifteen years ago means that Harry has powerful 
protection while he can still call this house 'home.' However miserable he 
has been here, however unwelcome, however badly treated, you have at 
least, grudgingly, allowed him houseroom . This magic will cease to operate 
the moment that Harry turns seventeen; in other words, at the moment he 
becomes a man. I ask only this: that y ou allow Harry to re turn, once more, to 
this house, before his seventeenth birthday, which will ensure that the 
protection continues until that time." 
 
None of the Dursleys said anything . Dudley was frowning slightly, as 
though he was still trying to work out when he had ever been mistreated. Uncle Vernon looked as though he had so mething stuck in his throat; Aunt 
Petunia, however, was oddly flushed. 
 
"Well, Harry... time for us to be off," said Dumbledore at last, standing up 
and straightening his long black cloak. "Until we meet again," he said to the 
Dursleys, who looked as though that moment could wait forever as far as 
they were concerned, and after doffi ng his hat, he swept from the room. 
 
"Bye," said Harry hastily to the Du rsleys, and followed Dumbledore, who 
paused beside Harry's trunk, upon which Hedwig's cag e was perched. 
 
"We do not want to be encumbered by these just now," he said, pulling 
out his wand again. "I shall send them  to the Burrow to await us there. 
However, I would like you to  bring your Invisibility Cloak... just in case." 
 
Harry extracted his cloak from his trun k with some difficulty, trying not 
to show Dumbledore the mess within. When  he had stuffed it into an inside 
pocket of his jacket, Dumbiedore wave d his wand and the trunk, cage, and 
Hedwig vanished. Dumbledore then wa ved his wand again, and the front 
door opened onto cool, misty darkness. 
 
"And now, Harry, let us step out into the night and pursue that flighty 
temptress, adventure."  
CHAPTER 4
 
Despite the fact that he had spent every waking moment of the past few 
days hoping desperately that Dumbledor e would indeed come to fetch him, 
Harry felt distinctly awkward as they set off down Privet Drive together. He 
had never had a proper conversation with the headmaster outside of 
Hogwarts before; there was usually a desk between them. The memory of 
their last face-to-face encounter kept in truding too, and it rather heightened 
Harry's sense of embarrassment; he had shouted a lot on that occasion, not to mention done his best to smash se veral of Dumbledore's most prized 
possessions. 
 
Dumbledore, however, seemed completely relaxed. 
 
"Keep your wand at the ready, Harry," he said brightly. 
 
"But I thought I'm not allowed to use magic outside school, sir?" 
 
"If there is an attack," said Dumbledor e, "I give you permission to use any 
counterjinx or curse that might occur to you. However, I do not think you 
need worry about being attacked tonight." 
 
"Why not, sir?" 
 
"You are with me," said Dumbledor e simply. "This will do, Harry." 
 He came to an abrupt halt at the end of Privet Drive. 
 
"You have not, of course, passed your Apparition Test," he said. 
 
"No," said Harry. "I thought you had to be seventeen?" 
 
"You do," said Dumbledore. "So you will need to hold on to my arm very 
tightly. My left, if you don't mind — as you have noticed, my wand arm is a 
little fragile at the moment." 
 
Harry gripped Dumbledore’s proffered forearm. 
 
"Very good," said Dumbledore.  "Well, here we go." 
 
Harry felt Dumbledore’s arm twist away  from him and redoubled his grip; 
the next thing he knew, everything we nt black; he was being pressed very 
hard from all directi ons; he could not breathe , there were iron bands 
tightening around his chest; his eyeballs were being forced back into his 
head; his eardrums were being pushed deeper into his skull and then —- 
 
He gulped great lungfulls of cold night air and opened his streaming eyes. 
He felt as though he had just been for ced through a very tight rubber tube. It 
was a few seconds before he realized that Privet Drive had vanished. He and 
Dumbledore were now standing in what appeared to be a deserted village square, in the center of which stood an old war memorial and a few benches. 
His comprehension catching up with his senses, Harry realized that he had 
just Apparated for the first time in his life.  
"Are you all right?" asked Dumbledor e, looking down at him solicitously. 
"The sensation does take some getting used to." 
 
"I'm fine," said Harry, rubbing his ear s, which felt as t hough they had left 
Privet Drive rather reluctantly. "But I think I might prefer brooms..." 
 
Dumbledore smiled, drew his traveli ng cloak a little more lightly around 
his neck, and said, "This way." 
 
He set off at a brisk pace, past an  empty inn and a few houses. According 
to a clock on a nearby chur ch, it was almost midnight. 
 
"So tell me, Harry," said Dumbledore. "Your scar... has it been hurting at 
all?" 
 
Harry raised a hand unconsciously to his forehead and rubbed i he 
lightning-shaped mark. 
 
"No," he said, "and I've been wondering  about that. I thought it would be 
burning all the time now Voldemort's getting so powerful again." 
 
He glanced up at Dumbledore and saw that he was wearing a satisfied 
expression. 
 
"I, on the other hand, thought othe rwise," said Dumbledore. "Lord 
Voldemort has finally realized the dangerous access to his thoughts and feelings you have been enjoying. It appears that he is now employing 
Occlumency against you." 
 
"Well, I'm not complaining," sa id Harry, who missed neither the 
disturbing dreams nor the startling flashes of insight into Voldemort's mind. 
 
They turned a corner, passing a te lephone box and a bus shelter. Harry 
looked sideways at Dumble dore again. "Professor?" 
 
"Harry?" 
 
"Er — where exactly are we?" 
 
"This, Harry, is the charming village of Budleigh Babberton." 
 
"And what are we doing here?" 
 
"Ah yes, of course, I haven't told you," said Dumbledore. "Well, I have 
lost count of the number of times I have said this in recent years, but we are, 
once again, one member of staff short.  We are here to persuade an old 
colleague of mine to come out of retir ement and return to Hogwarts."    
 
"How can I help with that, sir?" 
 
"Oh, I think we'll find a use for you," said Dumbledore vaguely. "Left 
here, Harry." 
 They proceeded up a steep, narrow street lined with houses. All the 
windows were dark. The odd chill that ha d lain over Privet Drive for two 
weeks persisted here too. Thinking of dementors, Harry cast a look over his 
shoulder and grasped his wand reassuringly in his pocket. 
 
"Professor, why couldn't we just Apparate directly into your old 
colleague's house?" 
 
"Because it would be quite as rude as  kicking down the front door," said 
Dumbledore. "Courtesy dictates that we  offer fellow wizards the opportunity 
of denying us entry. In any case, most Wizarding dwellings are magically 
protected from unwanted Apparators . At Hogwarts, for instance —" 
 
"— you can't Apparate anyw here inside the buildi ngs or grounds," said 
Harry quickly. "Hermione Granger told me." 
 
"And she is quite right. We turn left again." 
 
The church clock chimed midnigh t behind them. Harry wondered why 
Dumbledore did not consider it rude to call on his old colleague so late, but 
now that conversation had been establis hed, he had more pressing questions 
to ask. 
 
"Sir, I saw in the Daily Prophet that Fudge has been sacked..." 
 "Correct," said Dumbledore, now turning up a steep side street. "He has 
been replaced, as ] am sure you also saw, by Rufus Scrimgeour, who used to 
be Head of the Auror office." 
 
"Is he... Do you think he's good?" asked Harry. 
 
"An interesting question," said Dumb ledore. "He is able, certainly. A 
more decisive and forceful personality than Cornelius." 
 
"Yes, but I meant —" 
 
"I know what you meant. Rufus is a man of action and, having fought 
Dark wizards for most of his worki ng life, does not under-estimate Lord 
Voldemort." 
 
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not say anything about the 
disagreement with Scrimgeour that the Daily Prophet had reported, and he 
did not have the nerve to pursue the su bject, so he changed ii. "And... sir... I 
saw about Madam Bones." 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore quietly. "A te rrible loss. She was a great witch. 
Just up here, I think — ouch." 
 
He had pointed with his injured hand. 
 
"Professor, what happened to your … ?" 
 "I have no time to explain now," said Dumbledore. "It is a thrilling tale, I 
wish to do it justice." 
 
He smiled at Harry, who understood th at he was not being snubbed, and 
that he had permission to keep asking questions. 
 
"Sir — I got a Ministry of Magic leaf let by owl, about security measures 
we should all take against the Death Eaters..." 
 
"Yes, I received one myself," said Dumbledore, still smiling. "Did you 
find it useful?" 
 
"Not really." 
 
"No, I thought not. You have not as ked me, for instance, what is my 
favorite flavor of jam, to check that  I am indeed Professor Dumbledore and 
not an impostor." 
 
"I didn't..." Harry began, not en tirely sure whether he was being 
reprimanded or not. 
 
"For future reference, Harry, it is raspberry... although of course, if I were 
a Death Eater, I would have been sure  to research my own jam preferences 
before impersonating myself." 
 
"Er... right," said Harry. "Well, on th at leaflet, it said something about 
Inferi. What exactly are they? Th e leaflet wasn't very clear."  
"They are corpses," said Dumbledore ca lmly. "Dead bodies that have been 
bewitched to do a Dark wizard's bidding. Inferi have not been seen for a 
long time, however, not since Voldemort was last powerful... He killed 
enough people to make an army of them, of course. This is the place, Harry, 
just here..." 
 
They were nearing a small, neat stone  house set in its own garden. Harry 
was too busy digesting the horrible idea of Inferi to have much attention left 
for anything else, but as they reac hed the front gate, Dumbledore stopped 
dead and Harry walked into him. 
 
"Oh dear. Oh dear, dear, dear." 
 
Harry followed his gaze up the care fully tended front path and felt his 
heart sink. The front door was hanging off its hinges. 
 
Dumbledore glanced up and down the st reet. It seemed quite deserted. 
 
"Wand out and follow me, Ha rry," he said quietly. 
 
He opened the gate and walked swiftly  and silently up the garden path, 
Harry at his heels, then pushed the fr ont door very slowly, his wand raised 
and at the ready. 
 
"Lumos." 
 Dumbledore's wand tip ignited, casting its light up a narrow hallway. To 
the left, another door stood open. Ho lding his illuminated wand aloft, 
Dumbledore walked into the sitting room with Harry right behind him. 
 
A scene of total devastation met th eir eyes. A grandfather clock lay 
splintered at their feet, its face crac ked, its pendulum lying a little farther 
away like a dropped sword. A piano was on its side, its keys strewn across 
the floor. The wreckage of a fallen chandelier flittere d nearby. Cushions lay 
deflated, feathers oozing from slashes in  their sides; fragments of glass and 
china lay like powder over everything. Dumbledore raised his wand even 
higher, so that its light was thrown upon the walls, where something darkly 
red and glutinous was spattered over th e wallpaper. Harry's small intake of 
breath made Dumbledore look around. 
 
"Not pretty, is it?" he said heavily . "Yes, something horrible has happened 
here." 
 
Dumbledore moved carefully into the middle of the room, scrutinizing the 
wreckage at his feet. Harry followed, g azing around, half-scared of what he 
might see hidden behind the wreck of th e piano or the overturned sofa, but 
there was no sign of a body. 
 
"Maybe there was a fight and — and they dragged him off, Professor?" 
Harry suggested, trying not to imagine how badly wounded a man would have to be to leave those stai ns spattered halfway up the walls. 
 "I don't think so," said Dumbledore quietly, peering behind an overstuffed 
armchair lying on its side. 
 
"You mean he's — ?" 
 
"Still here somewhere? Yes." 
 
And without warning, Dumbledore sw ooped, plunging the tip of his wand 
into the seat of the overstuffed armchair, which yelled, "Ouch!" 
 
"Good evening, Horace," said Dumble dore, straightening up again. 
 
Harrys jaw dropped. Where a split second before there had been an 
armchair, there now crouched an enor mously fat, bald , old man who was 
massaging his lower belly and squi nting up at Dumbledore with an 
aggrieved and watery eye. 
 
"There was no need to stick the wand in that hard," he said gruffly, 
clambering to his feet. "It hurt." 
 
The wandlight sparkled on his shin y pate, his prominent eyes, his 
enormous, silver, walruslike mustache, and the highly polished buttons on 
the maroon velvet jacket he was weari ng over a pair of lilac silk pajamas. 
The top of his head barely  reached Dumbledore's chin. 
 "What gave it away?" he grunted as he  staggered to his feet, still rubbing 
his lower belly. He seemed remarkably unabashed for a man who had just 
been discovered pretending to be an armchair. 
 
"My dear Horace," said Dumbledore, looking amused, "if the Death 
Eaters really had come to call, the Dark Mark would have  been set over the 
house." 
 
The wizard clapped a pudgy ha nd to his vast forehead. 
 
"The Dark Mark," he muttered. "Knew there was something... ah well. 
Wouldn't have had time anyw ay, I'd only just put the finishing touches to my 
upholstery when you entered the room." 
 
He heaved a great sigh that made the ends of his mustache flutter. 
 
"Would you like my assistance cleari ng up?" asked Dumbledore politely. 
 
"Please," said the other. 
 
They stood back to back, the tall th in wizard and the short round one, and 
waved their wands in one identical sweeping motion. 
 
The furniture flew back to its original places; ornaments re-lormed in 
midair, feathers zoomed into their cu shions; torn books repaired themselves 
as they landed upon their shelves; oil lanterns soared onto side tables and 
reignited; avast collection of splintere d silver picture frames flew glittering across the room and alighted, whole and untarnished, upon a desk; rips, 
cracks, and holes healed everywhere, and the walls wiped themselves clean. 
 
"What kind of blood was that, inci dentally?" asked Dumbledore loudly 
over the chiming of the newly unsmashed grandfather flock. 
 
"On the walls? Dragon," shouted the wizard called Horace, as, with a 
deafening grinding and tinkling, the ch andelier screwed itself back into the 
ceiling. 
 
There was a final plunk from the piano, and silence. 
 
"Yes, dragon," repeated the wizard c onversationally. "My last bottle, and 
prices are sky-high at the moment. Still, it might be reusable." 
 
He stumped over to a small crystal bo ttle standing on top of a sideboard 
and held it up to the light, examining the thick liquid within. 
 
"Hmm. Bit dusty." 
 
He set the bottle back on the sideboard  and sighed. It was then that his 
gaze fell upon Harry. 
 
"Oho," he said, his large round eyes flying to Harry's forehead and the 
lightning-shaped scar it bore. "Oho!" 
 "This," said Dumbledore, moving forw ard to make the introduction, "is 
Harry Potter. Harry, this is an old Friend and colleague  of mine, Horace 
Slughorn." 
 
Slughorn turned on Dumbledore, his expression shrewd. "So that's how 
you thought you'd persuade me, is it? Well, the answer's no, Albus." 
 
He pushed past Harry, his face turned resolutely away with the air of a 
man trying to resist temptation. 
 
"I suppose we can have a drink, at  least?" asked Dumbledore. "For old 
time's sake?" 
 
Slughorn hesitated. 
 
"All right then, one drink," he said ungraciously. 
 
Dumbledore smiled at Harry and directed him toward a chair not unlike 
the one that Slughorn had so recently impersonated, which stood right beside 
the newly burning fire and a brightly gl owing oil lamp. Harry took the seat 
with the distinct impression that Du mbledore, for some reason, wanted to 
keep him as visible as possible. Certainly when Slughorn, who had been 
busy with decanters and glasses, turned to  face the room again, his eyes fell 
immediately upon Harry. 
 
"Hmpf," he said, looking away quickly as though frightened of hurting his 
eyes. "Here —" He gave a drink to Dumbledore, who had sat down without invitation, thrust the tray at Harry, a nd then sank into the cushions of the 
repaired sofa and a disgruntled silence.  His legs were so short they did not 
touch the floor. 
 
"Well, how have you been keepi ng, Horace?" Dumbledore asked. 
 
"Not so well," said Slughorn at onc e. "Weak chest. Wheezy. Rheumatism 
too. Can't move like I used to. Well, that 's to be expected. Old age. Fatigue." 
 
"And yet you must have moved fairly quickly to prepare such a welcome 
for us at such short notice," said Dumbledore. "You can't have had more 
than three minutes' warning?" 
 
Slughorn said, half irritably, half pr oudly, "Two. Didn't hear my Intruder 
Charm go off, I was taking a bath. Still, " he added sternly, seeming to pull 
himself back together again, "the fact remains that I'm an old man, Albus. A 
tired old man who's earned the right to a quiet life and a few creature 
comforts." 
 
He certainly had those, thought Ha rry, looking around the room. It was 
stuffy and cluttered, yet nobody coul d say it was uncomfortable; there were 
soft chairs and footstools, drinks a nd books, boxes of chocolates and plump 
cushions. If Harry had not known who liv ed there, he woul d have guessed at 
a rich, fussy old lady. 
 
"You're not yet as old as I am, Horace," said Dumbledore. 
 "Well, maybe you ought to think a bout retirement yourself," said 
Slughorn bluntly. His pale gooseberry eyes had found Dumbledore's injured 
hand. "Reactions not what they were, I see." 
 
"You're quite right," said Dumbledore serenely, shaking back his sleeve to 
reveal the tips of those burned and black ened ringers; the sight of them made 
the back of Harry's neck prickle unpleasantly. "1 am undoubtedly slower 
than I was. But on the other hand..." 
 
He shrugged and spread his hands wide , as though to say that age had its 
compensations, and Harry noticed a ri ng on his uninjured hand that he had 
never seen Dumbledore wear before: It was large, rather clumsily made of 
what looked like gold, and was set with a heavy black stone that had cracked 
down the middle. Slughorn's eyes lingere d for a moment on the ring too, and 
Harry saw a tiny frown momentar ily crease his wide forehead. 
 
"So, all these precautions against in truders, Horace... are they for the 
Death Eaters' benefit, or mine?" asked Dumbledore. 
 
"What would the Death Eaters want with a poor broken-down old buffer 
like me?" demanded Slughorn. 
 
"I imagine that they would want you to turn your considerable talents to 
coercion, torture, and murder," said Dumbledore. "Are you really telling me 
that they haven't come recruiting yet?" 
 Slughorn eyed Dumbledore balefully for a moment, then muttered, "I 
haven't given them the chance. I've been on the move for a year. Never stay 
in one place more than a week. Move from Mug-gle house to Muggle house 
— the owners of this place are on holid ay in the Canary Islands — it's been 
very pleasant, I'll be sorry to leav e. It's quite easy once you know how, one 
simple Freezing Charm on these absurd bur glar alarms they use instead of 
Sneako-scopes and make sure the neighbors don't spot you bringing in the piano." 
 
"Ingenious," said Dumbledore. "But it sounds a rather tiring existence for 
a broken-down old buffer in search of a quiet life. Now, if you were to return to Hogwarts —" 
 
"If you're going to tell me my life w ould be more peaceful at that 
pestilential school, you can save your breath, Albus! I might have been in 
hiding, but some funny rumors have reached me since Dolores Umbridge 
left! If that's how you treat teachers these days —" 
 
"Professor Umbridge ran afoul of our centaur herd," said Dumbledore. "I 
think you, Horace, would ha ve known better than to stri de into the forest and 
call a horde of angry centa urs 'filthy half-breeds.'" 
 
"That's what she did, did she?" said Slughorn. "Idio tic woman. Never 
liked her." 
 
Harry chuckled and both Dumbledore and Slughorn looked round at him. 
 "Sorry," Harry said hastily. "It's just — I didn't like her either." 
 
Dumbledore stood up rather suddenly. 
 
"Are you leaving?" asked Slughorn at once, looking hopeful. 
 
"No, I was wondering whether I mi ght use your bathroom," said 
Dumbledore. 
 
"Oh," said Slughorn, clearly disa ppointed. "Second on the left down the 
hall." 
 
Dumbledore strode from the room. Once  the door had closed behind him, 
there was silence. After a few moments, Slughorn got to his feet but seemed 
uncertain what to do with himself. He  shot a furtive look at Harry, then 
crossed to the fire and turned his back on it, warming his wide behind. 
 
"Don't think I don't know why he's brought you," he said abruptly. 
 
Harry merely looked at Slughorn. Slughor n's watery eyes slid over Harry's 
scar, this time taking in the rest of his face. 
 
"You look very like your father." 
 
"Yeah, I've been told," said Harry. 
 
"Except for your eyes. You've got —-"  
"My mother's eyes, yeah." Harry ha d heard it so often he found it a bit 
wearing. 
 
"Hmpf. Yes, well. You shouldn't have favorites as  a teacher, of course, 
but she was one of mine. Your mother ," Slughorn added, in answer to 
Harrys questioning look. "Lily Evans. One of the brightest I ever taught. 
Vivacious, you know. Charming girl. I us ed to tell her she ought to have 
been in my House. Very cheeky answers I used to get back too." 
 
"Which was your House?" 
 
"I was Head of Slytherin," said Slu ghorn. "Oh, now," he went on quickly, 
seeing the expression on Harry's face and wagging a stubby ringer at him, 
"don't go holding that against me! You'll  be Gryffindor like her, I suppose? 
Yes, it usually goes in families. Not always, though. Ever heard of Sirius 
Black? You must have done — been in the papers for the last couple of 
years — died a few weeks ago —" 
 
It was as though an invisible hand had twisted Harry's intestines and held 
them tight. 
 
"Well, anyway, he was a big pal of your father's at school. The whole 
Black family had been in my House, but Sirius ended up in Gryffindor! 
Shame — he was a talented boy. I got his brother, Regulus, when he came 
along, but I'd have liked the set." 
 He sounded like an enthusiastic collect or who had been outbid at auction. 
Apparently lost in memories, he gaze d at the opposite wall, turning idly on 
the spot to ensure an ev en heat on his backside. 
 
"Your mother was Muggle-born, of course. Couldn't believe it when I 
found out. Thought she must have b een pure-blood, she was so good." 
 
"One of my best friends is Muggle-bo rn," said Harry, "and she's the best 
in our year." 
 
"Funny how that sometimes happens, isn't it?" said Slughorn. 
 
"Not really," said Harry coldly. 
 
Slughorn looked down at him in surprise. "You mustn't think I'm 
prejudiced!" he said. "No, no, no! Haven't I just said your mother was one of 
my all-time favorite students? And there was Dirk Cresswell in the year after 
her too — now Head of the Goblin Li aison Office, of course — another 
Muggle-born, a very gifted student, and still gives me excellent inside 
information on the goings-on at Gringotts!" 
 
He bounced up and down a little, smiling in a self-satisfied way, and 
pointed at the many glittering phot ograph frames on the dresser, each 
peopled with tiny moving occupants. 
 
"All ex-students, all signed. You'll notice Barnabas Cuffe, editor of the 
Daily Prophet, he's always interested to  hear my take on the day's news. And Ambrosius Flume, of Honeydukes — a hamper every birthday, and all 
because I was able to give him an in troduction to Ciceron Harkisss who gave 
him his first job! And at the back — you'll see her if you just crane your 
neck — that's Gwenog Jones, who of  course captains the Holyhead 
Harpies... People are always astonished to hear I'm on first-name terms with 
the Harpies, and free tickets whenever I want them!" 
 
This thought seemed to cheer him up enormously. 
 
"And all these people know where to fi nd you, to send you stuff?" asked 
Harry, who could not help wondering why the Death Eaters had not yet 
tracked down Slughorn if hampers of sw eets, Quidditch tickets, and visitors 
craving his advice and opinions could find him. 
 
The smile slid from Slughorn's face as  quickly as the blood from his 
walls. 
 
"Of course not," he said, looking down at Harry. "I have been out of touch 
with everybody for a year." 
 
Harry had the impression that the wo rds shocked Slughorn himself; he 
looked quite unsettled for a moment. Then he shrugged. 
 
"Still... the prudent wizard keeps his he ad down in such times. All very 
well for Dumbledore to talk, but taking  up a post at Hog-warts just now 
would be tantamount to declaring my pu blic allegiance to the Order of the Phoenix! And while I'm sure they're very admirable and brave and all the 
rest of it, I don't personally fancy the mortality rate —" 
 
"You don't have to join the Order to teach at Hogwarts," said Harry, who 
could not quite keep a note of derision  out of his voice: It was hard to 
sympathize with Slughorn's cosseted existence when he remembered Sirius, 
crouching in a cave and living on rats. "M ost of the teachers aren't in it, and 
none of them has ever been killed — well, unless you count Quirrell, and he 
got what he deserved seeing as he was working with Voldemort." 
 
Harry had been sure Slughorn would be one of those wizards who could 
not bear to hear Voldemort's name spoken aloud, and was not disappointed: 
Slughorn gave a shudder a nd a squawk of protest, which Harry ignored. 
 
"I reckon the staff are safer than  most people while Dumble-dore's 
headmaster; he's supposed to be the only one Voldemort ever feared, isn't 
he?" Harry went on. 
 
Slughorn gazed into space for a moment or  two: He seemed to be thinking 
over Harry's words. 
 
"Well, yes, it is true that He-Who- Must-Not-Be-Named has never sought 
a fight with Dumbledore," he mutte red grudgingly. "And I suppose one 
could argue that as I have not join ed the Death Kilters, He-Who-Must-Not-
Be-Named can hardly count me a friend... in which case, I might well be safer a little closer to Albus... I cannot pretend that Amelia Bones's death did 
not shake me... If she, with all her Ministry contacts and protection..."  
Dumbledore reentered the room and Slughorn jumped as though he had 
forgotten he was in the house. 
 
"Oh, there you are, Albus," he said. "Y ou've been a very long lime. Upset 
stomach?" 
 
"No, I was merely reading the Muggl e magazines," said Dumbledore. "I 
do love knitting patterns. Well, Harry , we have trespassed upon Horace's 
hospitality quite long e nough; I think it is time for us to leave." 
 
Not at all reluctant to obey, Harry jumped to his feet. Slughorn sinned 
taken aback. 
 
"You're leaving?" 
 
"Yes, indeed. I think I know a lost cause when I see one." 
 
"Lost...?" 
 
Slughorn seemed agitated. He twiddled his fat thumbs and fidgeted as he 
watched Dumbledore fasten his traveli ng cloak, and Harry zip up his jacket. 
 
"Well, I'm sorry you don't want the job, Horace," said Dumbledore, 
raising his uninjured hand in a farewe ll salute. "Hogwarts would have been 
glad to see you back again. Our greatly  increased security notwithstanding, 
you will always be welcome to visit, should you wish to."  
"Yes... well... very gr acious... as I say..." 
 
"Good-bye, then." 
 
"Bye," said Harry. 
 
They were at the front door when there was a shout from behind them. 
 
"All right, all right, I'll do it!" 
 
Dumbledore turned to see Slughorn st anding breathless in the doorway to 
the sitting room.  
 
"You will come out of retirement?" 
  
"Yes, yes," said Slughorn impatiently. "I must be mad, but yes." 
 
"Wonderful," said Dumbledore, beami ng. "Then, Horace , we shall see 
you on the first of September." 
 
"Yes, I daresay you will," grunted Slughorn. 
 
As they set off down the garden path , Slughorn's voice floated after them, 
"I'll want a pay rise, Dumbledore!" 
 Dumbledore chuckled. The garden gate  swung shut behind them, and they 
set off back down the hill through the dark and the swirling mist. 
 
"Well done, Harry," said Dumbledore. 
 
"I didn't do anything," said Harry in surprise. 
 
"Oh yes you did. You showed Horace ex actly how much he stands to gain 
by returning to Hogwarts. Did you like him?" 
 
"Er..." 
 
Harry wasn't sure whether he liked Sl ughorn or not. He supposed he had 
been pleasant in his way, but he had also  seemed vain and, whatever he said 
to the contrary, much too surprised that a Muggle-born should make a good 
witch. 
 
"Horace," said Dumbledore, relieving Harry of the responsibility to say 
any of this, "likes his comfort. He al so likes the company of the famous, the 
successful, and the powerful. He enjoys the feeling that he influences these 
people. He has never wanted to occupy the throne himself; he prefers the 
backseat — more room to spread out, y ou see. He used to handpick favorites 
at Hogwarts, sometimes for their amb ition or their brains, sometimes for 
their charm or their talent, and he had an uncanny knack for choosing those 
who would go on to become outstandi ng in their various fields. Horace 
formed a kind of club of his favorites with himself at the center, making 
introductions, forging useful contacts between members, and always reaping some kind of benefit in return, whether a free box of his favorite crystallized 
pineapple or the chance to recommend the next junior member of the Goblin 
liaison Office." 
 
Harry had a sudden and vivid mental image of a great swollen spider, 
spinning a web around it, twitching a thread  here and there to bring its large 
and juicy flies a little closer. 
 
"I tell you all this," Dumbledore c ontinued, "not to turn you against 
Horace — or, as we must now call him, Professor Slughorn — but to put you on your guard. He w ill undoubtedly try to collect you, Harry. You 
would be the jewel of his collection; 'the Boy Who Lived'... or, as they call 
you these days, 'the Chosen One.'" 
 
At these words, a chill that had nothing to do with the surrounding mist 
stole over Harry. He was reminded of wo rds he had heard a few weeks ago, 
words that had a horrible and particular  meaning to him: Neither can live 
while the other survives... 
 
Dumbledore had stopped walking, level with the church they had passed 
earlier. 
 
"This will do, Harry. If you will grasp my arm." 
 
Braced this time, Harry was ready fo r the Apparition, but still found it 
unpleasant. When the pressure disappeared and he found himself able to 
breathe again, he was standing in a country lane besi de Dumbledore and looking ahead to the crooked silhouette of  his second favorite building in the 
world: the Burrow. In spite of the f eeling of dread that had just swept 
through him, his spirits could not help but lift at the sight of it. Ron was in 
there... and so was Mrs. Weasley, who could cook better than anyone he 
knew... 
 
"If you don't mind, Harry," said Dumb ledore, as they passed through the 
gate, "I'd like a few words with you befo re we part. In private. Perhaps in 
here?" 
 
Dumbledore pointed toward a run- down stone outhouse where the 
Weasleys kept their broomsticks . A little puzzled, Harry followed 
Dumbledore through the creaking door in to a space a little smaller than the 
average cupboard. Dumbledore illuminated the tip of his wand, so that it 
glowed like a torch, and smiled down at Harry. 
 
"I hope you will forgive me for menti oning it, Harry, but I am pleased and 
a little proud at how well you seem to be coping after everything that 
happened at the Ministry. Permit me to say that I think Sirius would have 
been proud of you." 
 
Harry swallowed; his voice seemed to ha ve deserted him. He did not think 
he could stand to discuss Sirius; it ha d been painful enough to hear Uncle 
Vernon say "His godfather's dead?" and even worse to hear Siriuss name 
thrown out casually by Slughorn. 
 "It was cruel," said Dumbledore softly , "that you and Sirius had such a 
short time together. A brutal ending to  what should have been a long and 
happy relationship." 
 
Harry nodded, his eyes fixed resolutely on the spider now climbing 
Dumbledore's hat. He could tell that  Dumbledore understood, that he might 
even suspect that until his letter arrive d, Harry had spent nearly all his time 
at the Dursleys' lying on his bed, refu sing meals, and staring at the misted 
window, full of the chill emptiness i ha t he had come to associate with 
dementors. 
 
"It's just hard," Harry said finally, in a low voice, "to realize he won't 
write to me again." 
 
His eyes burned suddenly and he blin ked. He felt stupid for admitting it, 
but the fact that he had had someone  outside Hogwarts who cared what 
happened to him, almost like a parent, ha d been one of the best things about 
discovering his godfather... and now the post owls would never bring him 
that comfort again... 
 
"Sirius represented much to you that  you had never know n before," said 
Dumbledore gently. "Naturally, the loss is devastat-ing... 
 
"But while I was at the Dursleys'..." interrupted Harry, his voice growing 
stronger, "I realized I cant shut myself away or — or crack up. Sirius 
wouldn't have wanted that, would he? And anyway, life's too short... Look at 
Madam Bones, look at Emmeline Vance... It could be me next, couldn't it? But if it is," he said fiercely, now looking straight into Dumbledore's blue 
eyes gleaming in the wandlight, "I'll ma ke sure I take as  many Death Eaters 
with me as I can, and Voldem ort too if I can manage it." 
 
"Spoken both like your mother and fath er's son and Sirius's true godson!" 
said Dumbledore, with an approving pa t on Harry's back. "I take my hat off 
to you — or I would, if I were not afraid of showering you in spiders. 
 
"And now, Harry, on a closely related subject... I gather that you have 
been taking the Daily Prophet over the last two weeks?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry, and his heart beat a little faster. 
 
"Then you will have seen that there have  been not so much leaks as floods 
concerning your adventure in the Hall of Prophecy?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry again. "And now  everyone knows that I'm the one — 
 
"No, they do not," interrupted Dumble dore. "There are only two people in 
the whole world who know the full conten ts of the prophecy made about you 
and Lord Voldemort, and they are bot h standing in this smelly, spidery 
broom shed. It is true, however, that  many have guessed, correctly, that 
Voldemort sent his Death Eaters to st eal a prophecy, and that the prophecy 
concerned you. 
 
"Now, I think I am correct in saying that you have not told anybody that 
you know what the prophecy said?"  
"No," said Harry. 
 
"A wise decision, on the whole," sa id Dumbledore. "Although I think you 
ought to relax it in favor of your fri ends, Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss 
Hermione Granger. Yes," he  continued, when Harry looked startled, "I think 
they ought to know. You do them a di sservice by not confiding something 
this important to them." 
 
"I didn't want —" 
 
"— to worry or frighten them?" sa id Dumbledore, surveying Harry over 
the top of his half-moon sp ectacles. "Or perhaps, to  confess that you yourself 
are worried and frightened? You need your friends, Harry. As you so rightly 
said, Sirius would not have wanted you to shut yourself away." 
 
Harry said nothing, but Dumbledore di d not seem to require an answer. 
He continued, "On a differe nt, though related, subject, it is my wish that you 
take private lessons with me this year." 
 
"Private — with you?" said Harry, surprised out of his preoccupied 
silence. 
 
"Yes. I think it is time that I took a greater hand in your education." 
 
What will you be teaching me, sir?" 
 "Oh, a little of this, a little of that," said Dumbledore airily. 
 
Harry waited hopefully, but Dumbledore did not elaborate, so ho asked 
something else that had b een bothering him slightly. 
 
"If I'm having lessons with you, I won't have to do Occlumency lessons 
with Snape, will I?" 
 
''Professor Snape, Harry — and no, you will not." 
 
"Good," said Harry in relief, "because they were a —" 
 
He stopped, careful not to say what he really thought. 
 
"I think the word 'fiasco' would be  a good one here," said Dumbledore, 
nodding. 
 
Harry laughed. 
 
"Well, that means I won't see much of Professor Snape from now on," he 
said, "because he won't let me carry on Potions unless I get 'Outstanding' in 
my OWL., which I know I haven't." 
 
"Don't count your owls before they are delivered," said Dumbledore 
gravely. "Which, now I think of it, ought  to be some time later today. Now, 
two more things, Harry, before we part. 
 "Firstly, I wish you to keep your Invi sibility Cloak with you at all i imes 
from this moment onward. Even within Hogwarts itself. Just in case, you 
understand me?" 
 
Harry nodded. 
 
"And lastly, while you stay here, the Burrow has been given the highest 
security the Ministry of Magic can provide. These measures have caused a 
certain amount of inconvenience to Art hur and Molly — all their post, for 
instance, is being searched at the Ministry before being sent on. They do not mind in the slightest, for their only concern is your safety. However, it 
would be poor repayment if you risked your neck while staying with them." 
 
"I understand," said Harry quickly. 
 
"Very well, then," said Dumbledor e, pushing open the broom shed door 
and stepping out into the yard. "I see a light in the kitchen. Let us not 
deprive Molly any longer of the chan ce to deplore how thin you are." 
CHAPTER 5
 
Harry and Dumbledore approached the back door of the Burrow, which 
was surrounded by the familiar litter of old Wellington boots and rusty 
cauldrons; Harry could hear the soft clucking of sleepy chickens coming 
from a distant shed. Dumbledore knocked three times and Harry saw sudden 
movement behind the kitchen window. 
 
"Who's there?" said a nervous voice he  recognized as Mrs. Weasley's. 
"Declare yourself!" 
 
"It is I, Dumbledore, bringing Harry." 
 
The door opened at once. There stood Mr s. Weasley, short, plump, and 
wearing an old green dressing gown. 
 
"Harry, dear! Gracious, Albus, you ga ve me a fright, you said not to 
expect you before morning!" 
 
"We were lucky," said Dumbledore, ushering Harry over the threshold. 
"Slughorn proved much more persuada ble than I had expected. Harry's 
doing, of course. Ah, hello, Nymphadora!" 
 
Harry looked around and saw that Mr s. Weasley was not alone, despite 
the lateness of the hour. A young witch w ith a pale, heart-shaped face and 
mousy brown hair was sitting at the ta ble clutching a large mug between her 
hands.  
"Hello, Professor," she sa id. " Wotcher, Harry." 
 
"Hi, Tonks." 
 
Harry thought she looked drawn, even ill, and there was something forced 
in her smile. Certainly her appearan ce was less colorful than usual without 
her customary shade of bubble-gum-pink hair. 
 
"I'd better be off," she said quick ly, standing up and pulling her cloak 
around her shoulders. "Thanks for the tea and sympathy, Molly" 
 
"Please don't leave on my account," said Dumbledore courteously, "I 
cannot stay, I have urgent matters to  discuss with Rufus Scrimgeour." 
 
"No, no, I need to get going," said Tonks, not meeting Dumbledore's eyes. 
"'Night..." 
 
"Dear, why not come to dinner at the weekend, Remus and Mad-Eye are 
coming... ?" 
 
"No, really, Molly... thanks anyway... Good night, every-one. 
 
Tonks hurried past Dumbledore and Harry into the yard; a few paces 
beyond the doorstep, she turned on the spot and vanished into thin air. Harry 
noticed that Mrs. Weasley looked troubled. 
 "Well, I shall see you at Hogwarts, Harry," said Dumbledore. "Take care 
of yourself. Molly, your servant." 
 
He made Mrs. Weasley a bow and foll owed Tonks, vanishing at precisely 
the same spot. Mrs. Weasley closed the door on the empty yard and then 
steered Harry by the shoulders into the full glow of the lantern on the table 
to examine his appearance. 
 
"You're like Ron," she sighed, l ooking him up and down. "Both of you 
look as though you've had Stretching jinxes put on you. I swear Ron's grown 
four inches since I last bought him school robes. Are you hungry, Harry?" 
 
"Yeah, I am," said Harry, suddenly  realizing just how hungry he was, 
 
"Sit down, dear, I'll knock something up." 
 
As Harry sat down, a furry ginger cat  with a squashed face lumped onto 
his knees and settled there, purring. 
 
"So Hermione's here?" he asked happi ly as he tickled Crookshanks behind 
the ears. 
 
"Oh yes, she arrived the day before  yesterday," said Mrs. Weasley, 
rapping a large iron pot with her wand. It bounced onto the stove with a loud 
clang and began to bubble at once. "Eve ryone's in bed, of course, we didn't 
expect you for hours. Here you are..." 
 She tapped the pot again; it rose into  the air, flew toward Harry, and 
tipped over; Mrs. Weasley slid a bowl near ly beneath it just in lime to catch 
the stream of thick, steaming onion soup. 
 
"Bread, dear?" 
 
"Thanks, Mrs. Weasley." 
 
She waved her wand over her shoulder; a loaf of bread and a knife soared 
gracefully onto the table; as the loaf sliced itself and the soup pot dropped 
back onto the stove, Mrs. We asley sat down opposite him. 
 
"So you persuaded Horace Sl ughorn to take the job?" 
 
Harry nodded, his mouth so full of  hot soup that he could not speak. 
 
"He taught Arthur and me," said Mrs.  Weasley. "He was at Hog-warts for 
ages, started around the same time as  Dumbledore, I think. Did you like 
him?" 
 
His mouth now full of bread, Harry  shrugged and gave a noncommittal 
jerk of the head. 
 
"I know what you mean," said Mrs. Weasley, nodding wisely. "Of course 
he can be charming when he wants to be, but Arthur's never liked him much. 
The Ministry's littered with Slughorn's ol d favorites, he was always good at 
giving leg ups, but he never had much time for Arthur... didn't seem to think he was enough of a highflie r. Well, that just shows you, even Slughorn 
makes mistakes. I don't know whether Ron' s told you in any of his letters... 
it's only just happened... but Arthur's been promoted!" 
 
It could not have been clearer that Mrs. Weasley had been bursting to say 
this. 
 
Harry swallowed a large amount of very hot soup and thought he could 
feel his throat blistering. "That's great!" he gasped. 
 
"You are sweet," beamed Mrs. Weasle y, possibly taking his watering eyes 
for emotion at the news. "Yes, Rufus Scrimgeour has se t up several new 
offices in response to the present situat ion, and Arthur's heading the Office 
for the Detection and Confiscation of  Counterfeit Defens ive Spells and 
Protective Objects. It's a big job, he 's got ten people reporting to him now!" 
 
"What exactly?" 
 
"Well, you see, in all the panic a bout You-Know-Who, odd things have 
been cropping up for sale everywhere , things that are supposed to guard 
against You-Know-Who and the Death Ea ters. You can imagine the kind of 
thing... so-called protective potions th at are really gravy with a bit of 
bubotuber pus added, or instructions fo r defensive jinxes that actually make 
your ears fall off... Well, in the main the perpetrators are just people like 
Mundungus Hotelier, who've never done an  honest day's work in their lives 
and are taking advantage of how frigh tened everybody is, but every now and 
then something really nasty turns up. The other day Arthur  confiscated a box of cursed Sneakoscopes that were almost  certainly planted by a Death Eater. 
So you see, it's a very important job, and I tell him it's just silly to miss 
dealing with spark plugs and toasters  and all the rest of that Muggle 
rubbish." Mrs. Weasley ended her speech with a stern look, as if it had been Harry suggesting that it was natural to miss spark plugs. 
 
"Is Mr. Weasley still at work?" Harry asked. 
 
"Yes, he is. As a matter of fact, he's a tiny bit late... He said he'd be back 
around midnight..." 
 
She turned to look at a large clock that was perc hed awkwardly on top of 
a pile of sheets in the washing bask et at the end of the table. Harry 
recognized it at once: It had nine hands , each inscribed with the name of a 
family member, and usually hung on i he Weasleys' sitting room wall, 
though its current position suggested that Mrs. Weasley had taken to 
carrying it around the house with her. Ev ery single one of its nine hands was 
now pointing at "mortal peril." 
 
"It's been like that for a while now," said Mrs. Weasley, in an un-
convincingly casual voice, "ever since You-Know-Who came back into the 
open. I suppose everybody's in mortal  danger now... I don't think it can be 
just our family... but I d on't know anyone else who's got a clock like this, so 
I can't check. Oh!" 
 
With a sudden exclamation she pointed at the clock's face. Mr. Weasley's 
hand had switched to "traveling."  
"He's coming!" 
 
And sure enough, a moment later there was a knock on the back door. 
Mrs. Weasley jumped up and hurried to it; with one hand on the doorknob 
and her face pressed against the wood she called softly, "Arthur, is that 
you?" 
 
"Yes," came Mr. Weasley's weary voice. "But I would say that even if I 
were a Death Eater, dear. Ask the question!" 
 
"Oh, honestly..." 
 
"Molly!" 
 
"All right, all right... What is your dearest ambition?" 
 
"To find out how airplanes stay up." 
 
Mrs. Weasley nodded and turned the doorknob, but apparently Mr. 
Weasley was holding tight to it on the other side, because the door remained 
firmly shut. 
 
"Molly! I've got to ask you your question first!" 
 
"Arthur, really, this is just silly..." 
 "What do you like me to call you when we're alone together?" 
 
Even by the dim light of the lantern Harry could tell that Mrs. Weasley 
had turned bright red; he himself felt suddenly warm around the ears and 
neck, and hastily gulped soup, clatte ring his spoon as lo udly as he could 
against the bowl. 
 
"Mollywobbles," whispered a mortified Mrs. Weasley into the crack at the 
edge of the door. 
 
"Correct," said Mr. Weasley.  "Now you can let me in." 
 
Mrs. Weasley opened the door to reveal  her husband, a thin, balding, red-
haired wizard wearing horn-rimmed spectacles and a long and dusty 
traveling cloak. 
 
"I still don't see why we have to go through that every time you come 
home," said Mrs. Weasley, still pink in the face as she helped her husband 
out of his cloak. "I mean, a Death Eate r might have forced the answer out of 
you before impersonating you!" 
 
"I know, dear, but it's Ministry procedur e, and I have to set an example. 
Something smells good... onion soup?" 
 
Mr. Weasley turned hopefully in the direction of the table. 
 
"Harry! We didn't expect you until morning!"  
They shook hands, and Mr. Weasley dropped into the chair beside Harry 
as Mrs. Weasley set a bowl of soup in front of him too. 
 
"Thanks, Molly. It's been a tough ni ght. Some idiot's started selling 
Metamorph-Medals. Just sling them around your neck and you'll be able to 
change your appearance at will. A hundr ed thousand disguises, all for ten 
Galleons!" 
 
"And what really happens when you put them on?" 
 
"Mostly you just turn a fairly unpleas ant orange color, but a couple of 
people have also sprouted tentacle like warts all over their bodies. As if St. 
Mungo's didn't have enough to do already!" 
 
"It sounds like the sort of thing Fred and George would find funny," said 
Mrs. Weasley hesitantly. "Are you sure... ?" 
 
"Of course I am!" said Mr. Weasley.  "The boys wouldn't do anything like 
that now, not when people ar e desperate for protection!" 
 
"So is that why you're late, Metamorph-Medals?" 
 
"No, we got wind of a nasty backfiri ng jinx down in Elephant and Castle, 
but luckily the Magical Law Enforcem ent Squad had sorted it out by the 
time we got there..." 
 Harry stifled a yawn behind his hand. 
 
"Bed," said an undeceived Mrs. Weasley at once. "I've got Fred and 
George's room all ready for yo u, you'll have it to yourself." 
 
"Why, where are they?" 
 
"Oh, they're in Diagon Alley, sleeping in the little flat over their joke shop 
as they're so busy," said Mrs. Weasley. "I must say, I didn't approve at first, 
but they do seem to have a bit of a flair for business! Come on, dear, your 
trunks already up there." 
 
"'Night, Mr. Weasley," said Harry, pushing back his chair. Crookshanks 
leapt lightly from his lap and slunk out of the room. 
 
"G'night, Harry," said Mr. Weasley. 
 
Harry saw Mrs. Weasley glance at the clock in the washing basket as they 
left the kitchen. All the hands were once again at "mortal peril." 
 
Fred and George's bedroom was on the second floor. Mrs. Weasley 
pointed her wand at a lamp on the be dside table and it ignited at once, 
bathing the room in a pleasant golden glow. Though a large vase of flowers had been placed on a desk in front of  the small window, their perfume could 
not disguise the lingering smell of wh at Harry thought was gunpowder. A 
considerable amount of floor space was devoted to a vast number of 
unmarked, sealed cardboard boxes,  amongst which stood Harry's school trunk. The room looked as though it  was being used as a temporary 
warehouse. 
 
Hedwig hooted happily at Harry from her perch on top of a large 
wardrobe, then took off through th e window; Harry knew she had been 
waiting to see him before going huntin g. Harry bade Mrs. Weasley good 
night, put on pajamas, and got into one  of the beds. There was something 
hard inside the pillowcase. He grope d inside it and pulled out a sticky 
purple-and-orange sweet, which he r ecognized as a Puking Pastille. Smiling 
to himself, he rolled over and was instantly asleep. 
 
Seconds later, or so it seemed to  Harry, he was awakened by what 
sounded like cannon fire as the door burst open. Sitting bolt upright, he 
heard the rasp of the curtains being pulled back: The dazzling sunlight 
seemed to poke him hard in both eyes . Shielding them w ith one hand, he 
groped hopelessly for his gl asses with the other. 
 
"Wuzzgoinon?" 
 
"We didn't know you were here alrea dy!" said a loud and excited voice, 
and he received a sharp blow to the top of the head. 
 
"Ron, don't hit him!" said a girl's voice reproachfully. 
 
Harry's hand found his glasses and he shoved them on, though I he light 
was so bright he could hardly see a nyway. A long, looming shadow quivered in front of him for a moment; he bli nked and Ron Weasley came into focus, 
grinning down at him. 
 
"All right?" 
 
"Never been better," said Harry, rubbi ng the top of his head and slumping 
back onto his pillows. "You?" 
 
"Not bad," said Ron, pulling over a cardboard box and sitting on it. 
"When did you get here? Mum's only just told us!" 
 
"About one o'clock this morning." 
 
"Were the Muggles all right? Did they treat you okay?" 
 
"Same as usual," said Harry, as Herm ione perched herself on the edge of 
his bed, "they didn't talk to me much, but I like it better that way. How're 
you, Hermione?" 
 
"Oh, I'm fine," said Hermione, who was scrutin izing Harry as though he 
was sickening for something. He though t he knew what was behind this, and 
as he had no wish to discuss Sirius's death or any other miserable subject at 
the moment, he said, "What's the time? Have I missed breakfast?" 
 
"Don't worry about that, Mum's bri nging you up a tray; she reckons you 
look underfed," said Ron, rolling hi s eyes. "So, what's been going on?" 
 "Nothing much, I've just been stuck at my aunt and unc le's, haven't I?" 
 
"Come off it!" said Ron. "You've been off with Dumbledore!" 
 
"It wasn't that exciting. He just want ed me to help him persuade this old 
teacher to come out of retirement. His name's Horace Slughorn." 
 
"Oh," said Ron, looking disappointed. "We thought..." 
 
Hermione flashed a warning look at Ron, and Ron changed tack at top 
speed. 
 
"...we thought it'd be something like that." 
"You did?" said Harry, amused. 
 
"Yeah... yeah, now Umbridge has le ft, obviously we need a new Defense 
Against the Dark Arts teacher, don't we? So, er, what's he like?" 
 
"He looks a bit like a walrus, and he us ed to be Head of Slytherin," said 
Harry. "Something wrong, Hermione?" 
 
She was watching him as though expecti ng strange symptoms to manifest 
themselves at any moment. She rea rranged her features hastily in an 
unconvincing smile. 
 
"No, of course not! So, um, did Slughorn seem like he'll be a good 
teacher?"  
"Dunno," said Harry. "He can't be worse than Umbridge, can he?" 
 
"I know someone who's worse than Umbridge," said a voice from the 
doorway. Ron's younger sister slouched into  the room, looking irritable. "Hi, 
Harry." 
 
"What's up with you ?" Ron asked. 
 
"It's her," said Ginny, plonking he rself down on Harry's bed. "She's 
driving me mad." 
 
"What's she done now?" asked Hermione sympathetically. 
 
"It's the way she talks to me. .. you'd think I was about three!" 
 
"I know," said Hermione, dropping her voice. "She's so full of herself." 
 
Harry was astonished to hear Hermi one talking about Mrs. Weasley like 
this and could not blame Ron for sayi ng angrily, "Can't you two lay off her 
for five seconds?" 
 
"Oh, that's right, defend her," sna pped Ginny. "We all know you can't get 
enough of her." 
 
This seemed an odd comment to ma ke about Ron's mother. Starting to 
feel that he was missing something, Harry said, "Who are you... ?"  
But his question was answered before  he could finish it. The bedroom 
door flew open again, and Harry instinct ively yanked the bedcovers up to his 
chin so hard that Hermione and Ginny slid off the bed onto the floor. 
 
A young woman was standing in the doorway, a woman of such 
breathtaking beauty that the room seemed to have become strangely airless. 
She was tall and willowy with long blo nde hair and appeared to emanate a 
faint, silvery glow. To complete this vision of perfection, she was carrying a heavily laden breakfast tray. 
 
"'Arry," she said in a throaty voice. "Eet 'as been too long!" 
 
As she swept over the threshold toward  him, Mrs. Weasley was revealed, 
bobbing along in her wake, looking rather cross. 
 
"There was no need to bring up the tray , I was just about to do it myself!" 
 
"Eet was no trouble," said Fleur Del acour, setting the tray across Harry's 
knees and then swooping to kiss him on each cheek: He felt the places where her mouth had touched him burn. "I 'ave been longing to see 'im. You 
remember my seester, Ga brielle? She never stops talking about 'Arry Potter. 
She will be delighted to see you again." 
 
"Oh... is she here too?" Harry croaked. 
 "No, no, silly boy," said Fleur w ith a tinkling laugh, "I mean next 
summer, when we... but do you not know?" 
 
Her great blue eyes widened and she looked reproachfully at Mrs. 
Weasley, who said, "We hadn't got around to telling him yet." 
 
Fleur turned back to Harry, swinging her silvery sheet of hair so that it 
whipped Mrs. Weasley across the face. 
 
"Bill and I are going to be married!" 
 
"Oh," said Harry blankly. He could not help noticing how Mrs. Weasley, 
Hermione, and Ginny were all determinedly avoiding one another's gaze. 
"Wow. Er... congratulations!" 
 
She swooped down upon him and kissed him again. 
 
"Bill is very busy at ze moment, work ing very 'ard, and I only work part-
time at Gringotts for my Eenglish, so he brought me 'ere for a few days to 
get to know 'is family properly. I wa s so pleased to 'ear you would be 
coming... zere isn't much to do 'ere, unless you like cooki ng and chickens! 
Well... enjoy your breakfast, 'Arry!" 
 
With these words she turned gracefully  and seemed to float out of the 
room, closing the door quietly behind her. 
 
Mrs. Weasley made a noise th at sounded like, "tchah!"  
"Mum hates her," said Ginny quietly. 
 
"I do not hate her!" said Mrs. Weasle y in a cross whisper. "I just think 
they've hurried into this engagement, that's all!" 
 
"They've known each other a year," said Ron, who looked oddly groggy 
and was staring at the closed door. 
 
"Well, that's not very long! I know why it's happened, of course. Its all 
this uncertainty with You-Know-Who coming back, people think they might 
be dead tomorrow, so they're rushing a ll sorts of decisions they'd normally 
take time over. It was the same last time he was powerful, people eloping 
left, right, and center..." 
 
"Including you and Dad," said Ginny slyly. 
 
"Yes, well, your father a nd I were made for each other, what was the point 
in waiting?" said Mrs. Weasley. "Wher eas Bill and Fleur... well... what have 
they really got in comm on? He's a hardworking, down-to-earth sort of 
person, whereas she's..." 
 
"A cow," said Ginny, nodding. "But B ill's not that down-to-earth. He's a 
Curse-Breaker, isn't he, he likes a b it of adventure, a bit of glamour... I 
expect that's why he's gone for Phlegm." 
 "Stop calling her that, Ginny," said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Harry and 
Hermione laughed. "Well,  I'd better get on... Eat your eggs while they're 
warm, Harry." 
 
Looking careworn, she left the room . Ron still seemed slightly punch-
drunk; he was shaking his head expe rimentally like a dog trying to rid its 
ears of water. 
 
"Don't you get used to her if she's staying in the same house?" Harry 
asked. 
 
"Well, you do," said Ron, "but if sh e jumps out at you unexpectedly, like 
then..." 
 
"It's pathetic," said Hermione furiou sly, striding away from Ron as far as 
she could go and turning to face him with her arms folded once she had 
reached the wall. 
 
"You don't really want her ar ound forever?" Ginny asked Ron 
incredulously. When he merely shr ugged, she said, "Well, Mum's going to 
put a stop to it if she can, I bet you anything." 
 
"How's she going to mana ge that?" asked Harry. 
 
"She keeps trying to get Tonks rou nd for dinner. I think she's hoping Bill 
will fall for Tonks instead. I hope he do es, I'd much rather have her in the 
family."  
"Yeah, that'll work," said Ron sarcastically. "Listen, no bloke in his right 
mind's going to fancy Tonks when Fl eur's around. I mean, Tonks is okay-
looking when she isn't doing stupid things  to her hair and her nose, but..." 
 
"She's a damn sight nicer than Phlegm? said Ginny. 
 
"And she's more intelligent, she's an  Auror!" said Hermione from the 
corner. 
 
"Fleur's not stupid, she was good enough to enter the Triwizard 
Tournament," said Harry. 
 
"Not you as well!" said Hermione bitterly. 
 
"I suppose you like the way Phlegm says ' 'Any,' do you?" asked Ginny 
scornfully. 
 
"No," said Harry, wishing he hadn't spok en, "I was just saying, Phlegm... I 
mean, Fleur..." 
 
"I'd much rather have Tonks in the family," said Ginny. "At least she's a 
laugh." 
 
"She hasn't been much of a laugh lately ," said Ron. "Every time I've seen 
her she's looked more like Moaning Myrtle." 
 "That's not fair," snapped Hermione . "She still hasn 't got over what 
happened... you know... I mean , he was her cousin!" 
 
Harry's heart sank. They had arrived at Sirius. He picked up a fork and 
began shoveling scrambled eggs into  his mouth, hoping to deflect any 
invitation to join in this part of the conversation. 
 
"Tonks and Sirius barely knew each other!" said Ron. "Sirius was in 
Azkaban half her life and before that their families never met..." 
 
"That's not the point," said Hermione . "She thinks it was her limit he 
died!" 
 
"How does she work that one out?" asked Harry, in spite of himself. 
 
"Well, she was fighting Bellatrix Lest range, wasn't she? I think she feels 
that if only she had finished her off, Bellatrix couldn't have killed Sirius." 
 
"That's stupid," said Ron. 
 
"It's survivor's guilt," said Hermione . "I know Lupin's tried to talk her 
round, but she's still really down. Sh e's actually having trouble with her 
Metamorphosing!" 
 
"With her...?" 
 "She can't change her appearance like she used to," explained Hermione. 
"I think her powers must have been affected by shock, or something." 
 
"I didn't know that could happen," said Harry. 
 
"Nor did I," said Hermione, "but I s uppose if you're really depressed..." 
 
The door opened again and Mrs. Weas ley popped her head in. "Ginny," 
she whispered, "come downstairs and help me with the lunch." 
 
"I'm talking to this lot!" said Ginny, outraged. 
 
"Now!" said Mrs. Weasley, and withdrew. 
 
"She only wants me there so she doesn't  have to be alone with Phlegm!" 
said Ginny crossly. She swung her long red hair arou nd in a very good 
imitation of Fleur and pranced across th e room with her arms held aloft like 
a ballerina. 
 
"You lot had better come  down quickly too," she said as she left. 
 
Harry took advantage of the temporar y silence to eat more breakfast. 
Hermione was peering into Fred and George's boxes, though every now and 
then she cast sideways looks at Harry . Ron, who was now helping himself to 
Harry...s toast, was still gazing dreamily at the door. 
 "What's this?" Hermione asked even tually, holding up what looked like a 
small telescope. 
 
"Dunno," said Ron, "but if Fred and Ge orge left it here, it's probably not 
ready for the joke shop yet, so be careful" 
 
"Your mum said the shop's going well," said Harry. "Said Fred and 
George have got a real flair for business." 
 
"That's an understatement," said Ron.  "They're raking in the Galleons! I 
can't wait to see the place, we haven' t been to Diagon Alley yet, because 
Mum says Dad's got to be there for extr a security and he's been really busy 
at work, but it sounds excellent." 
 
"And what about Percy?" asked Harry; the third-eldest Weasley brother 
had fallen out with the rest of the fam ily. "Is he talking to  your mum and dad 
again?" 
 
"Nope," said Ron. 
 
"But he knows your dad was right all along now about Voldemort being 
back..." 
 
"Dumbledore says people find it far easier to forgive others for being 
wrong than being right," said Hermi one. "I heard him telling your mum, 
Ron." 
 "Sounds like the sort of mental thing Dumbledore would say," said Ron. 
 
"He's going to be giving me private lessons this year," said Harry 
conversationally. 
 
Ron choked on his bit of toas t, and Hermione gasped. 
 
"You kept that quiet!" said Ron. 
 
"I only just remembered," said Harry honestly. "He told me last night in 
your broom shed." 
 
"Blimey... private lessons with Dumbledore!" said Ron, looking 
impressed. "I wonder why he's... ?" 
 
His voice tailed away. Harry saw him and Hermione exchange looks. 
Harry laid down his knife and fork, his heart beating rather fast considering 
that all he was doing was sitting in bed. Dumbledore had said to do it... Why 
not now? He fixed his eyes on his fork , which was gleaming in the sunlight 
streaming into his lap, and said, "I don't know exactly why he's going to be 
giving me lessons, but I think it mu st be because of the prophecy." 
 
Neither Ron nor Hermione spoke. Harry  had the impression that both had 
frozen. He continued, still speaking to  his fork, "You know, the one they 
were trying to steal at the Ministry." 
 "Nobody knows what it said, though," said Hermione quickly. "It got 
smashed." 
 
"Although the Prophet says..." bega n Ron, but Hermione said, "Shh!" 
 
"The Prophet's got it right," said Harry, looking up at them both with a 
great effort: Hermione seemed frighten ed and Ron amazed. "That glass ball 
that smashed wasn't the only record of  the prophecy. I heard the whole thing 
in Dumbledore's office, he was the one  the prophecy was made to, so he 
could tell me. From what it said," Harry took a deep breath, "it looks like I'm 
the one who's got to finish  off Voldemort... At least, it said neither of us 
could live while the other survives." 
 
The three of them gazed at one another in silence for a moment. Then 
there was a loud bang and Hermione va nished behind a puff of black smoke. 
 
"Hermione!" shouted Harry and Ron; th e breakfast tray slid to the floor 
with a crash. 
 
Hermione emerged, coughing, out of the smoke, clutching the telescope 
and sporting a brilliantly purple black eye. 
 
"I squeezed it and it... it punched me!" she gasped. 
 
And sure enough, they now saw a ti ny fist on a long spring protruding 
from the end of the telescope. 
 "Don't worry," said Ron, who was plai nly trying not to laugh, "Mum'll fix 
that, she's good at healing minor injuries..." 
 
"Oh well, never mind that now!" sa id Hermione hastily. "Harry, oh, 
Harry..." 
 
She sat down on the edge of his bed again. 
 
"We wondered, after we got back from the Ministry... Obviously, we 
didn't want to say anything to you, but from what Lucius Malfoy said about 
the prophecy, how it was about you and Voldemort, well, we thought it 
might be something like this... Oh, Ha rry..." She stared at him, then 
whispered, "Are you scared?" 
 
"Not as much as I was," said Harry. "When I first heard it, I was... but 
now, it seems as though I always knew I'd have to face him in the end..." 
 
"When we heard Dumbledore was collec ting you in person,  we thought he 
might be telling you something or s howing you something to do with the 
prophecy," said Ron eagerly. "And we were kind of right, weren't we? He 
wouldn't be giving you lessons if he  thought you were  a goner, wouldn't 
waste his time... he must think you've got a chance!" 
 
"That's true," said He rmione. "I wonder what he'll teach you, Harry? 
Really advanced defensive magic, probably... powerful countercurses... anti-
jinxes..." 
 Harry did not really listen. A warmth  was spreading through him that had 
nothing to do with the sunlight; a tight ob struction in his chest seemed to be 
dissolving. He knew that Ron and Herm ione were more shocked than they 
were letting on, but the mere fact that th ey were still there on either side of 
him, speaking bracing words of comfort, not shrinking from him as though 
he were contaminated or dangerous, wa s worth more than he could ever tell 
them. 
 
"...and evasive enchantments generally ," concluded Herm ione. "Well, at 
least you know one lesson you'll be having this year, that's  one more than 
Ron and me. I wonder when our OWL results will come?" 
 
"Cant be long now, it's been a month," said Ron. 
 
"Hang on," said Harry, as another part  of last night's conversation came 
back to him. "I think Dumbledore sa id our OWL results would be arriving 
today!" 
 
"Today?" shrieked Hermione. "Today? But why didn't you... oh my God... 
you should have said..." 
 
She leapt to her feet. 
 
"I'm going to see whethe r any owls have come..." 
 
But when Harry arrived downstairs te n minutes later, fully dressed and 
carrying his empty breakfast tray, it was to find Hermione sitting at the kitchen table in great agitation, while  Mrs. Weasley tried to lessen her 
resemblance to half a panda. 
 
"It just won't budge," Mrs. Weasley was saying anxiously, standing over 
Hermione with her wand in  her hand and a copy of The Healer's Helpmate 
open at "Bruises, Cuts, and Abrasions."  "This has always worked before, I 
just can't understand it." 
 
"It'll be Fred and George's idea of a funny joke, making sure it can't come 
off," said Ginny. 
 
"But it's got to come off!" squeaked Hermione. "I can't go around looking 
like this forever!" 
 
"You won't, dear, we'll find an antidot e, don't worry," said Mrs. Weasley 
soothingly. 
 
"Bill told me W Fred and George are very amusing!" said Fleur, smiling 
serenely. 
 
"Yes, I can hardly breathe fo r laughing," snapped Hermione. 
 
She jumped up and started walking ro und and round the kitchen, twisting 
her fingers together. 
 
"Mrs. Weasley, you're quite, quite sure no owls have arrived this 
morning?"  
"Yes, dear, I'd have noticed," said Mr s. Weasley patiently. "But it's barely 
nine, there's still plenty of time..." 
 
"I know I messed up Ancient Runes," muttered Hermione feverishly, "I 
definitely made at least one serious mistranslation. And the Defense Against 
the Dark Arts practical was no good at a ll. I thought Transfiguration went all 
right at the time, but looking back..." 
 
"Hermione, will you shut up, you're not the only one who's nervous!" 
barked Ron. "And when you've got your eleven 'Outstanding OWLs...’" 
 
"Don't, don't, don't!" said Hermione, flapping her hands hysterically. "I 
know I've failed everything!" 
 
"What happens if we fail? " Harry asked the room at  large, but it was again 
Hermione who answered. 
 
"We discuss our options with our Head of House, I asked Professor 
McGonagall at the end of last term." 
 
Harry's stomach squirmed. He wish ed he had eaten less breakfast. 
 
"At Beauxbatons," said Fleur compla cently, "we 'ad a different way of 
doing things. I think eet was better. We  sat our examinations after six years 
of study, not five, and then..." 
 Fleur's words were drowned in a sc ream. Hermione was pointing through 
the kitchen window. Three black specks were clearly visible in the sky, 
growing larger all the time. 
 
"They're definitely owls," said Ron hoarsely, jumping up to join 
Hermione at the window. 
 
"And there are three of them," said Harry, hastening to her other side. 
 
"One for each of us," said Hermione  in a terrified whisper. "Oh no... oh 
no... oh no..." 
 
She gripped both Harry and Ron tightly around the elbows. 
 
The owls were flying directly at  the Burrow, three handsome tawnies, 
each of which, it became clear as they flew lower over the path leading up to 
the house, was carrying a large square envelope. 
 
"Oh no!" squealed Hermione. 
 
Mrs. Weasley squeezed past them and opened the kitchen window. One, 
two, three, the owls soared through it an d landed on the table in a neat line. 
All three of them lifted their right legs. 
 
Harry moved forward. The letter addre ssed to him was tied to the leg of 
the owl in the middle. He untied it w ith fumbling fingers. To his left, Ron was trying to detach his own results; to his right, Herm ione's hands were 
shaking so much she was ma king her whole owl tremble. 
 
Nobody in the kitchen spoke. At last , Harry managed to detach the 
envelope. He slit it open quickly and unfolded the parchment inside. 
 
Ordinary Wizarding Level Results 
Pass Grades: 
Outstanding (O) 
Exceeds Expectations (E) 
Acceptable (A) 
 
Fail Grades: 
Poor (P) 
Dreadful (D) 
Troll (T) 
 
Harry James Potter has achieved: 
Astronomy A 
Care of Magical Creatures E 
Charms E 
Defense Against the Dark Arts O 
Divination P 
Herbology E 
History of Magic D 
Potions E 
Transfiguration E 
 
Harry read the parchment through se veral times, his breathing becoming 
easier with each reading. It was all right: He had always known that he 
would fail Divination, and he had ha d no chance of passing History of 
Magic, given that he had collapsed ha lfway through the examination, but he 
had passed everything else! He ran hi s finger down the grades... he had 
passed well in Transfiguration and Herbology, he had even exceeded expectations at Potions! And best of a ll, he had achieved  "Outstanding" at 
Defense Against the Dark Arts! 
 
He looked around. Hermione had her ba ck to him and her head bent, but 
Ron was looking delighted. 
 
"Only failed Divination and Histor y of Magic, and who cares about 
them?" he said happily to  Harry. "Here... swap..." 
 
Harry glanced down Ron's grades: Th ere were no "Outstandings" there... 
 
"Knew you'd be top at Defense Agai nst the Dark Arts," said Ron, 
punching Harry on the shoulder. "We' ve done all right, haven't we?" 
 
"Well done!" said Mrs. Weasley proudly, ruffli ng Ron's hair. "Seven 
OWLs, that's more than Fred and George got together!" 
 
"Hermione?" said Ginny tentatively,  for Hermione still hadn't turned 
around. "How did you do?" 
 
"I--not bad," said Herm ione in a small voice. 
 
"Oh, come off it," said Ron, striding  over to her and whipping her results 
out of her hand. "Yep... ten 'Outstandings' a nd one 'Exceeds Expectations' at 
Defense Against the Dark Arts." He l ooked down at her, half-amused, half-
exasperated. "You're actually  disappointed, aren't you?" 
 Hermione shook her h ead, but Harry laughed. 
 
"Well, we're N.E.W.T. students now!"  grinned Ron. "Mum, are there any 
more sausages?" 
 
Harry looked back down at his results . They were as good as he could 
have hoped for. He felt just one tiny tw inge of regret... This was the end of 
his ambition to become an  Auror. He had not secured the required Potions 
grade. He had known all along that he wouldn't, but he still felt a sinking in 
his stomach as he looked again at that small black E. 
 
It was odd, really, seeing that it had been a Death Eater in disguise who 
had first told Harry he would make a good Auror, but somehow the idea had 
taken hold of him, and he couldn't really  think of anything else he would like 
to be. Moreover, it had seemed the righ t destiny for him since he had heard 
the prophecy a few weeks ago... Neither can live while the other 
survives...Wouldn't he be living up to the prophecy, and giving himself the 
best chance of survival, if he joined  those highly trained wizards whose job 
it was to find and kill Voldemort? 
CHAPTER 6
 
Harry remained within the confines of the Burrow's garden over the next 
few weeks. He spent most of his days  playing two-a-side Quidditch in the 
Weasleys' orchard (he and Hermione against Ron and Ginny; Hermione was 
dreadful and Ginny good, so they were reasonably well matched) and his 
evenings eating triple helpings of everything Mrs. Weasley put in front of 
him. 
 
It would have been a happy, peacef ul holiday had it not been for the 
stones of disappearances, odd accidents,  even of deaths now appearing 
almost daily in the Prophet. Sometimes Bill and Mr. Weasley brought home 
news before it even reac hed the paper. To Mrs. Weasley’s displeasure, 
Harry's sixteenth birthday celebrations were marred by grisly tidings brought 
to the party by Remus Lupin, who wa s looking gaunt and grim, his brown 
hair streaked liberally with gray, hi s clothes more ragge d and patched than 
ever. 
 
"There have been another couple of  dementor attacks," he announced, as 
Mrs. Weasley passed him a large slice of birthday cake. "And they've found 
Igor Karkaroff's body in a shack up nor th. The Dark Mark had been set over 
it... well, frankly, I'm surprised he stayed  alive for even a year after deserting 
the Death Eaters; Sirius's brother, Re gulus, only managed a few days as far 
as I can remember." 
 
"Yes, well," said Mrs. Weasley, frown ing, "perhaps we should talk about 
something diff..."  
"Did you hear about Florean Fortes cue, Remus?" asked Bill, who was 
being plied with wine by Fl eur. "The man who ran..." 
 
"Is the ice-cream place in Diagon Alley?" Harry interrupted, with an 
unpleasant, hollow sensation in the pit of  his stomach. "He used to give me 
free ice creams. What's  happened to him?" 
 
"Dragged off, by the look of his place." 
 
"Why?" asked Ron, while Mrs. Weas ley pointedly glared at Bill. 
 
"Who knows? He must've upset th em somehow. He was a good man, 
Florean." 
 
"Talking of Diagon Alley," said Mr. Weasley, "looks like Ollivander's 
gone too." 
 
"The wandmaker?" said Ginny, looking startled. 
 
"That's the one. Shop's empty. No sign of a struggle. No one knows 
whether he left voluntarily or was kidnapped." 
 
"But what'll people do for wands?" 
 
"They'll make do with other makers," said Lupin. "But Ollivander was the 
best, and if the other side have got him it's not so good for us."  
  
 
The day after this rather gloomy birthd ay tea, their letters and booklists 
arrived from Hogwarts. Harry's incl uded a surprise: he had been made 
Quidditch Captain. 
 
"That gives you equal status with prefects!" cried Hermione happily. 
"You can use our special bath room now and everything!" 
 
"Wow, I remember when Charlie wore one of these," said Ron, examining 
the badge with glee. "Harry, this is so cool, you're my Captain... if you let 
me back on the team, I suppose, ha ha..." 
 
"Well, I don't suppose we can put off a trip to Diagon Alley much longer 
now you've got these," sighed Mrs. Weas ley, looking down Ron...s booklist. 
"We'll go on Saturday as long as your fa ther doesn't have to go into work 
again. I'm not going there without him." 
 
"Mum, d'you honestly think You-Know -Who's going to be hiding behind 
a bookshelf in Flourish and Blotts?" sniggered Ron. 
 
"Fortescue and Ollivander went on holiday, did they?" said Mrs. Weasley, 
firing up at once. "If you think security's a laughing matter you can stay 
behind and I'll get your things myself..." 
 "No, I wanna come, I want to see Fred and George's shop!" said Ron 
hastily. 
 
"Then you just buck up your ideas, young man, before I decide you're too 
immature to come with us!" said Mr s. Weasley angrily, snatching up her 
clock, all nine hands of  which were still pointing at "mortal peril," and 
balancing it on top of a pile of just -laundered towels. "And that goes for 
returning to Hogwarts as well!" 
 
Ron turned to stare incredulously at  Harry as his mother hoisted the 
laundry basket and the teetering clock into her arms and stormed out of the 
room. 
 
"Blimey... you can't even make a joke round here anymore..." 
 
But Ron was careful not to be flippa nt about Voldemort over the next few 
days. Saturday dawned without any mo re outbursts from Mrs. Weasley, 
though she seemed very tense at breakf ast. Bill, who would be staying at 
home with Fleur (much to Hermione and Ginny's pleasure), passed a full 
money bag across the table to Harry. 
 
"Where's mine?" demanded R on at once, his eyes wide. 
 
"That's already Harry's, id iot," said Bill. "I got it  out of your vault for you, 
Harry, because it's taking about five hours for the public to get to their gold 
at the moment, the goblins have tighten ed security so much. Two days ago Arkie Philpott had a Probity Probe stuck up his... Well, trust me, this way's 
easier." 
 
"Thanks, Bill," said Ha rry, pocketing his gold. 
 
 "E is always so thoughtful," purred Fleur adoringly, stroking Bill's nose. 
Ginny mimed vomiting into her cereal behind Fleur. Harry choked over his 
cornflakes, and Ron thumped him on the back. 
 
It was an overcast, murky day. One of  the special Ministry of Magic cars, 
in which Harry had ridden once before, was awaiting them in the front yard 
when they emerged from the house, pulling on their cloaks. 
 
"It's good Dad can get us these again," said Ron appreciatively, stretching 
luxuriously as the car moved smoot hly away from the Burrow, Bill and 
Fleur waving from the kitchen windo w. He, Harry, Hermione, and Ginny 
were all sitting in roomy comf ort in the wide backseat. 
 
"Don't get used to it, it's only because of Harry," said Mr. Weasley over 
his shoulder. He and Mrs. Weasley were in front w ith the Ministry driver; 
the front passenger seat had obligingly stretched into what resembled a two-
seater sofa. "He's been given top-grade security status. And we'll be joining 
up with additional security at the Leaky Cauldron too." 
 
Harry said nothing; he did not much fancy doing his shopping while 
surrounded by a battalion of Aurors. He had stowed his Invisibility Cloak in 
his backpack and felt that, if that was good enough for Dumbledore, it ought to be good enough for the Ministry, tho ugh now he came to think of it, he 
was not sure the Ministry knew about his cloak. 
 
"Here you are, then," said the driver , a surprisingly short while later, 
speaking for the first time as he slowed  in Charing Cross Road and stopped 
outside the Leaky Cauldron. "I'm to wait for you, any idea how long you'll 
be?" 
 
"A couple of hours, I expect," said Mr. Weasley. "Ah, good, he's here!" 
 
Harry imitated Mr. Weasley and p eered through the window; his heart 
leapt. There were no Aurors waiting outsi de the inn, but instead the gigantic, 
black-bearded form of Rubeus Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, wearing a 
long beaverskin coat, beaming at the si ght of Harry's face and oblivious to 
the startled stares of passing Muggles. 
 
"Harry!" he boomed, sw eeping Harry into a bone-crushing hug the 
moment Harry had stepped out of the car. "Buckbeak.. . Witherwings, I 
mean... yeh should see him, Harry, he's so happy ter be back in the open 
air..." 
 
"Glad he's pleased," said Harry, gr inning as he massaged his ribs. "We 
didn't know 'security' meant you!" 
 
"I know, jus' like old times, innit? S ee, the Ministry wanted ter send a 
bunch o' Aurors, but Dumbledore said I' d do," said Hagrid proudly, throwing out his chest and tucking his thumbs in to his pockets. "Lets get goin' then... 
after yeh, Molly, Arthur..." 
 
The Leaky Cauldron was, for the first time in Harry's memory, completely 
empty. Only Tom the landlord, wizened and toothless, remained of the old 
crowd. He looked up hopefully as they entered, but before  he could speak, 
Hagrid said importantly, "Jus' passin' through today, Tom, sure yeh understand, Hogwarts business, yeh know." 
 
Tom nodded gloomily and returned to  wiping glasses; Harry, Hermione, 
Hagrid, and the Weasleys walked th rough the bar and out into the chilly 
little courtyard at the back where the dus tbins stood. Hagrid raised his pink 
umbrella and rapped a certa in brick in the wall, which opened at once to 
form an archway onto a winding cobbled street. They stepped through the 
entrance and paused, looking around. 
 
Diagon Alley had changed. The colorfu l, glittering window displays of 
spellbooks, potion ingredients, and cau ldrons were lost to view, hidden 
behind the large Ministry of Magic poste rs that had been pasted over them. 
Most of these somber purple posters  carried blown-up versions of the 
security advice on the Ministry pamphl ets that had been sent out over the 
summer, but others bore moving bl ack-and-white photographs of Death 
Eaters known to be on the loose. Bel latrix Lestrange was sneering from the 
front of the nearest apothecary. A fe w windows were boarded up, including 
those of Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlor. On the other hand, a number 
of shabby-looking stalls had sprung  up along the street. The nearest one, which had been erected outside Flouris h and Blotts, under a striped, stained 
awning, had a cardboard sign pinned to its front: 
 
  
 
AMULETS 
Effective Against Werewolves, Dementors, and Inferi! 
 
A seedy-looking little wi zard was rattling armfuls of silver symbols on 
chains at passersby. 
 
"One for your little girl, madam?" he  called at Mrs. Weasley as they 
passed, leering at Ginny. "Protect her pretty neck?" 
 
"If I were on duty..." said Mr. Weasley, glaring angrily at the amulet 
seller. 
 
"Yes, but don't go arresting anyone now, d ear, we're in a hurry," said Mrs. 
Weasley, nervously consulting a lis t. "I think we'd better do Madam 
Malkin's first, Hermione wants new dress robes, and Ron's showing much 
too much ankle in his school robes, a nd you must need new ones too, Harry, 
you've grown so much... come on, everyone..." 
 
"Molly, it doesn't make sense for all of us to go to Madam Malkin's," said 
Mr. Weasley. "Why don't those three go with Hagrid, and we can go to 
Flourish and Blotts and get everyone's school-books?" 
 "I don't know," said Mrs. Weasley anxiously, clearly torn between a 
desire to finish the shopping quickly and the wish to stick together in a pack. 
"Hagrid, do you think...- ?" 
 
"Don't fret, they'll be fine with me , Molly," said Hagrid soothingly, 
waving an airy hand the size of a dustb in lid. Mrs. Weasley did not look 
entirely convinced, but allowed the sepa ration, scurrying off toward Flourish 
and Blotts with her husba nd and Ginny while Harr y, Ron, Hermione, and 
Hagrid set off for Madam Malkin's. 
 
Harry noticed that many of the pe ople who passed them had the same 
harried, anxious look as Mrs. Weasley, and that nobody was stopping to talk 
anymore; the shoppers stayed togeth er in their own tightly knit groups, 
moving intently about their business. Nobody seemed to be shopping alone. 
 
"Migh' be a bit of a squeeze in there w ith all of us," said Hagrid, stopping 
outside Madam Malkin's and bending dow n to peer through the window. "I'll 
stand guard outside, all right?" 
 
So Harry, Ron, and Hermi one entered the little shop together. It appeared, 
at first glance, to be empty, but no sooner had the door swung shut behind 
them than they heard a familiar voice issuing from behind a rack of dress 
robes in spangled green and blue. 
 
"... not a child, in case you haven't no ticed, Mother. I am perfectly capable 
of doing my shopping alone." 
 There was a clucking noise and a voi ce Harry recognized as that of 
Madam Malkin, the owner, said, "Now, dear, your mother's quite right, none 
of us is supposed to go wandering aro und on our own anymore, it's nothing 
to do with being a child..." 
 
"Watch where you're sticking that pin, will you!" 
 
A teenage boy with a pale, pointed face and white-blond hair appeared 
from behind the rack, wearing a handsom e set of dark green robes that 
glittered with pins around th e hem and the edges of th e sleeves. He strode to 
the mirror and examined himself; it wa s a few moments before he noticed 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione reflected ove r his shoulder. His light gray eyes 
narrowed. 
 
"If you're wondering what the smell is, Mother, a Mudbl ood just walked 
in," said Draco Malfoy. 
 
"I don't think there's any need for language like that!" said Madam 
Malkin, scurrying out from behind the clothes rack holding a tape measure 
and a wand. "And I don't want wands dr awn in my shop either!" she added 
hastily, for a glance toward the door  had shown her Ha rry and Ron both 
standing there with their wands out a nd pointing at Malfoy. Hermione, who 
was standing slightly behi nd them, whispered, "No,  don't, honestly, it's not 
worth it. " 
 
"Yeah, like you'd dare do magic out of school," sneered Malfoy. "Who 
blacked your eye, Granger? I want to send them flowers."  
"That's quite enough!" sa id Madam Malkin sharply, looking over her 
shoulder for support. "Madam, please!" 
 
Narcissa Malfoy strolled out from behind the clothes rack. 
 
"Put those away," she said coldly to  Harry and Ron. "If you at-tack my 
son again, I shall ensure that it is the last thing you ever do." 
 
"Really?" said Harry, taking a step forward and gazing into the smoothly 
arrogant face that, for all its pallor, still  resembled her sister's. He was as tall 
as she was now. "Going to get a few De ath Eater pals to do us in, are you?" 
 
Madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart. 
 
"Really, you shouldn't accuse... dange rous thing to say... wands away, 
please!" 
 
But Harry did not lower his wand. Narcissa Malfoy smiled unpleasantly. 
 
"I see that being Dumbledore's favor ite has given you a false sense of 
security, Harry Potter. But Dumbledore won't always be there to protect 
you." 
 
Harry looked mockingly all around the shop. "Wow... look at that... he's 
not here now! So why not have a go?  They might be able to find you a 
double cell in Azkaban with  your loser of a husband!"  
Malfoy made an angry movement to ward Harry, but stumbled over his 
overlong robe. Ron laughed loudly. 
 
"Don't you dare talk to my mother like that, Potter!" Malfoy snarled. 
 
"It's all right, Draco," said Narcissa, restraining him with her thin white 
fingers upon his shoulder. "I expect Po tter will be reunited with dear Sirius 
before I am reunited with Lucius." 
 
Harry raised his wand higher. 
 
"Harry, no!" moaned Hermione, grabbi ng his arm and attempting to push 
it down by his side. "Think... You must n't... You'll be in such trouble..." 
 
Madam Malkin dithered for a moment on the spot, then seemed to decide 
to act as though nothing was happening in the hope that it wouldn't. She bent 
toward Malfoy, who was still glaring at Harry. 
 
"I think this left sleeve could come up a little bit more, dear, let me just..." 
 
"Ouch!" bellowed Malfoy,  slapping her hand away. "Watch where you're 
putting your pins, woman! Mother, I don't think I want these anymore." 
 
He pulled the robes over his head and threw them onto the floor at Madam 
Malkin's feet. 
 "You're right, Draco," said Narci ssa, with a contemptuous glance at 
Hermione, "now I know the kind of scum that shops here... We'll do better at 
Twilfitt and Tatting's." 
 
And with that, the pair of them str ode out of the shop, Malfoy taking care 
to bang as hard as he could into Ron on the way out. 
 
"Well, really? said Madam Malkin , snatching up the fallen robes and 
moving the tip of her wand over them lik e a vacuum cleaner, so that it 
removed all the dust. 
 
She was distracted all through the fitti ng of Ron's and Harry's new robes, 
tried to sell Hermione wizard's dress robes instead of witch's, and when she 
finally bowed them out of th e shop it was with an air of being glad to see the 
back of them. 
 
"Got ev'rything?" asked Hagrid brightly  when they reappe ared at his side. 
 
"Just about," said Harry. "Did you see the Malfoys?" 
 
"Yeah," said Hagrid, unconcerned. "B u they wouldn... dare make trouble 
in the middle o' Diagon Alley, Harry. Don' worry abou1 them." 
 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchange d looks, but before they could 
disabuse Hagrid of this comfortabl e notion, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and 
Ginny appeared, all clutching heavy packages of books. 
 "Everyone all right?" said Mrs. Weasle y. "Got your robes? Right then, we 
can pop in at the Apothecary and Eeylop s on the way to Fred and George's... 
stick close, now..." 
 
Neither Harry nor Ron b ought any ingredients at the Apothecary, seeing 
that they were no longer studying Po tions, but both bought large boxes of 
owl nuts for Hedwig and Pigwidgeon at  Eeylops Owl Emporium. Then, with 
Mrs. Weasley checking her watch every minute or so, they headed farther 
along the street in search of Weasle ys' Wizard Wheezes, the joke shop run 
by Fred and George. 
 
"We really haven't got too long," Mrs.  Weasley said. "So we'll just have a 
quick look around and then back to the car.  We must be close, that's number 
ninety-two... ninety-four..." 
 
"Whoa,"said Ron, stopping in his tracks. 
 
Set against the dull, poster-muffled  shop Fronts around them, Fred and 
Georges windows hit the eye like a fire work display. Cas ual passersby were 
looking back over their shoulders at th e windows, and a fe w rather stunned-
looking people had actually come to a halt, transfixed. The left-hand window 
was dazzlingly full of an assortment of  goods that revolved, popped, flashed, 
bounced, and shrieked; Harrys eyes began to water just looking at it. The 
right-hand window was covered with a gi gantic poster, purple like those of 
the Ministry, but emblazoned with flashing yellow letters: 
 
 WHY ARE YOU WORRYING ABOUT 
YOU-KNOW-WHO? 
YOU SHOULD BE WORRYING ABOUT 
U-NO-POO-- 
THE CONSTIPATION SENSATION 
THAT'S GRIPPING THE NATION! 
 
Harry started to laugh. He heard a w eak sort of moan beside him and 
looked around to see Mrs. Weasley g azing, dumbfounded, at the poster. Her 
lips moved silently, mouthing the name "U-No-Poo." 
 
"They'll be murdered in th eir beds!" she whispered. 
 
"No they won’t!" said Ron, who,  like Harry, was laughing. "This is 
brilliant!" 
 
And he and Harry led the way into  the shop. It was packed with 
customers; Harry could not get near the shelves. He stared around, looking 
up at the boxes piled to the ceiling: Here were the Skiving Snackboxes that 
the twins had perfected during their last , unfinished year at Hogwarts; Harry 
noticed that the Nosebleed Nougat was most popular, with only one battered box left on the shelf. There were bi ns full of trick wands, the cheapest 
merely turning into rubber chickens or pairs of briefs when waved, the most 
expensive beating the unwary user ar ound the head and neck, and boxes of 
quills, which came in Self-Inking, Spell-Checking, and Smart-Answer 
varieties. A space cleared in the cr owd, and Harry pushed his way toward 
the counter, where a gaggle of delight ed ten-year-olds was watching a tiny 
little wooden man slowly ascending the steps to a real set of gallows, both 
perched on a box that read:  Reusable hangman - spell it or he'll swing!   
"Patented Daydream Charms” 
 
Hermione had managed to squeeze through to a large display near the 
counter and was reading the information on the back of a box bearing a 
highly colored picture of a handsome youth and a swooning girl who were 
standing on the deck of a pirate ship. 
 
"One simple incantation and you will en ter a top-quality, highly realistic, 
thirty-minute daydream, easy to fit into the average school lesson and 
virtually undetectable (side effects include vacant expression and minor 
drooling). Not for sale to under-six teens. You know," said Hermione, 
looking up at Harry, "that real ly is extraordinary magic!" 
 
"For that, Hermione," said a voice behind them, "you can have one for 
free." 
 
A beaming Fred stood befo re them, wearing a set of magenta robes that 
clashed magnificently with his flaming hair. 
 
"How are you, Harry?" They shook ha nds. "And what's happened to your 
eye, Hermione?" 
 
 Your punching telescope ," she said ruefully. 
 
“Oh blimey, I forgot about t hose," said Fred. "Here..." 
 He pulled a tub out of hi s pocket and handed it to  her; she unscrewed it 
gingerly to reveal a thick yellow paste. 
 
"Just dab it on, that bruise'll be gone  within the hour," said Fred. "We had 
to find a decent bruise remover. We'r e testing most of our products on 
ourselves." 
 
Hermione looked nervous. "It is  safe, isn't it?" she asked. 
 
"Course it is," said Fred bracingly. "C ome on, Harry, I'll give you a tour." 
 
Harry left Hermione dabbing her black  eye with paste and followed Fred 
toward the back of the shop, where he  saw a stand of card and rope tricks. 
 
"Muggle magic tricks!" said Fred happily, pointing them out. "For freaks 
like Dad, you know, who love Muggle stuff.  It's not a big earner, but we do 
fairly steady business, they're great  novelties... Oh, here's George..." 
 
Fred's twin shook Harrys hand energetically. 
 
"Giving him the tour? Come through the back, Harry, th at's where we're 
making the real money...pocket anythi ng, you, and you'll pay in more than 
Galleons!" he added warningly to a sm all boy who hastily whipped his hand 
out of the tub labeled: 
 
 EDIBLE DARK  MARKS----THEY'LL MAKE  ANYONE SICK!  
 George pushed back a curtain beside  the Muggle tricks and Harry saw a 
darker, less crowded room. The pack aging on the products lining these 
shelves was more subdued. 
 
"We've just developed this more serious line," said Fred. "Funny how it 
happened..." 
 
"You wouldn't believe how many people,  even people who work at the 
Ministry, can't do a decent Shield Charm," said George. "'Course, they didn't 
have you teaching them, Harry." 
 
"That's right... Well, we thought Shie ld Hats were a bit of a laugh, you 
know, challenge your mate to jinx you while wearing it and watch his face 
when the jinx just bounces off. But the Ministry bou ght five hundred for all 
its support staff! And we're still getting massive orders!" 
 
"So we've expanded into a range of Shield Cloaks, Shield Gloves..." 
 
"... I mean, they wouldn't help much against the Unforgivable Curses, but 
for minor to moderate  hexes or jinxes..." 
 
"And then we thought we'd get into th e whole area of Defense Against the 
Dark Arts, because it's such a money spinner," continued George 
enthusiastically. "This is cool. L ook, Instant Darkness Powder, we're 
importing it from Peru. Handy if you wa nt to make a quick escape." 
 "And our Decoy Detonators are just wa lking off the shelves, look," said 
Fred, pointing at a number of weird-looking black horn-type objects that 
were indeed attempting to scurry  out of sight. "You just drop one 
surreptitiously and it'll run off and ma ke a nice loud noise out of sight, 
giving you a diversion if you need one. 
 
"Handy," said Harry, impressed. 
 
"Here," said George, catching a couple and throwing them to Harry. 
 
A young witch with short blonde hair poked her head around the curtain; 
Harry saw that she too was w earing magenta staff robes. 
 
"There's a customer out here looking  for a joke cauldron, Mr. Weasley 
and Mr. Weasley," she said. 
 
Harry found it very odd to hear Fre d and George calle d "Mr. Weasley," 
but they took it in their stride. 
 
"Right you are, Verity, I'm coming, " said George promptly. "Harry, you 
help yourself to anything you want, all right? No charge." 
 
"I can't do that!" said Harry, who ha d already pulled out his money bag to 
pay for the Decoy Detonators. 
 
"You don't pay here," sa id Fred firmly, waving away Harry's gold. 
 "But..." 
 
"You gave us our start-up loan, we ha ven't forgotten," said George sternly 
"Take whatever you like, and just reme mber to tell people where you got it, 
if they ask." 
 
George swept off through the curtain to help with the customers, and Fred 
led Harry back into the main part of the shop to find Hermione and Ginny 
still poring over the Patented Daydream Charms. 
 
"Haven't you girls found our special  WonderWitch products yet?" asked 
Fred. "Follow me, ladies..." 
 
Near the window was an array of violently pink products around which a 
cluster of excited girls was giggling enthusiastically. Hermione and Ginny 
both hung back, looking wary. 
 
"There you go," said Fred proudly. "Bes t range of love potions you'll find 
anywhere." 
 
Ginny raised an eyebrow skeptically . "Do they work?" she asked. 
 
"Certainly they work, for up to twen ty-four hours at a time depending on 
the weight of the boy in question..." 
 
"... and the attractiveness of the girl," said George, reappearing suddenly 
at their side. "But we're not selling them  to our sister," he added, becoming suddenly stern, "not when she's alr eady got about five boys on the go from 
what we've..." 
 
"Whatever you've heard fro m Ron is a big fat lie," said Ginny calmly, 
leaning forward to take a small pink pot off the shelf. "What's this?" 
 
"Guaranteed ten-second pi mple vanisher," said Fred. "Excellent on 
everything from boils to blackheads, but  don't change the subject. Are you or 
are you not currently going out with a boy called Dean Thomas?" 
 
"Yes, I am," said Ginny. "And last tim e I looked, he was definitely one 
boy, not five. What are those?" 
 
She was pointing at a number of round balls  of fluff in shades of pink and 
purple, all rolling around the bottom of a cage and emitting high-pitched 
squeaks. 
 
"Pygmy Puffs," said George. "Miniature  puffskeins, we can...t breed them 
fast enough. So what about Michael Corner?" 
 
"I dumped him, he was a bad loser," said Ginny, putting a finger through 
the bars of the cage and watching the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it. "They're 
really cute!" 
 
"They're fairly cuddly, yes," conceded Fred. "B ut you're moving through 
boyfriends a bit fast, aren't you?" 
 Ginny turned to look at him, her hands  on her hips. There was such a Mrs. 
Weasley-ish glare on her face that Ha rry was surprised Fred didn't recoil. 
 
"It's none of your business. And I'll th ank you'' she added angrily to Ron, 
who had just appeared at George's el bow, laden with merchandise, "not to 
tell tales about me to these two!" 
 
"That's three Galleons, nine Sickles,  and a Knut," said Fred, examining 
the many boxes in Ron' s arms. "Cough up." 
 
"I'm your brother!" 
 
"And that's our stuff you're nicking. Three Galleons, nine Sickles. I'll 
knock off the Knut." 
 
"But I haven't got three Galleons, nine Sickles!" 
 
"You'd better put it back then, and mind you put it on the right shelves." 
 
Ron dropped several boxes,  swore, and made a r ude hand gesture at Fred 
that was unfortunately spotted by Mr s. Weasley, who had chosen that 
moment to appear. 
 
"If I see you do that again I'll jinx your fingers together," she said sharply. 
 
"Mum, can I have a Pygmy Puff?" said Ginny at once. 
 "A what?" said Mrs. Weasley warily. 
 
"Look, they're so sweet..." 
 
Mrs. Weasley moved aside to look at the Pygmy Puffs, and Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione momentarily had an unimpeded view out of the window. 
Draco Malfoy was hurrying up the str eet alone. As he passed Weasleys' 
Wizard Wheezes, he glanced over his s houlder. Seconds la ter, he moved 
beyond the scope of the window and they lost sight of him. 
 
"Wonder where his mummy is?"  said Harry, frowning. 
 
"Given her the slip by the looks of it," said Ron. 
 
"Why, though?" said Hermione. 
 
Harry said nothing; he was thinking too hard. Narcissa Malfoy would not 
have let her precious son out of her si ght willingly; Malfoy must have made 
a real effort to free himself from her clutches. 
 
Harry, knowing and loathing Malfoy, wa s sure the reason could not be 
innocent. 
 
He glanced around. Mrs. Weasle y and Ginny were bending over the 
Pygmy Puffs. Mr. Weasley was delightedly examining a pack of Muggle marked playing cards. Fred and George were both helping customers. On the other side of the glass, Hagrid was standing with his back to them, looking 
up and down the street. 
 
"Get under here, quick," said Harry, pulling his Invisibility Cloak out of 
his bag. 
 
"Oh, I don't know, Harry," said Herm ione, looking uncertainly toward 
Mrs. Weasley. 
 
"Come on," said Ron. 
 
She hesitated for a second longer, th en ducked under the cloak with Harry 
and Ron. Nobody noticed them vanish; th ey were all too interested in Fred 
and George's products. Harry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed their way out of 
the door as quickly as they could, but  by the time they gained the street, 
Malfoy had disappeared just as  successfully as they had. 
 
"He was going in that direction," murm ured Harry as quietly as possible, 
so that the humming Hagrid w ould not hear them...Cmon... 
 
They scurried along, peering left  and right, through shop windows and 
doors, until Hermione pointed ahead. 
 
"That's him, isn't it?" she whispered. "Turning left?" 
 
"Big surprise," whispered Ron. 
 For Malfoy had glanced around, then slid into Knockturn Alley and out of 
sight. 
 
"Quick, or we'll lose him," said Harry, speeding up. 
 
"Our feet'll be seen!" said Hermi one anxiously, as the cloak flapped a 
little around their ankles; it was much more  difficult hiding all three of them 
under the cloak nowadays. 
 
"It doesn't matter," said Harry impatiently. "Just hurry!" 
 
But Knockturn Alley, the side street  devoted to the Dark Arts, looked 
completely deserted. They peered into  windows as they passed, but none of 
the shops seemed to have any customer s at all. Harry supposed it was a bit 
of a giveaway in these dangerous and suspicious times to buy Dark 
artifacts... or at least, to be seen buying them. 
 
Hermione gave his arm a hard pinch. 
 
"Ouch!" 
 
"Shh! Look! He's in there!" she breathed in Harry's ear. 
 
They had drawn level with the only s hop in Knockturn Alley that Harry 
had ever visited, Borgin and Burkes, wh ich sold a wide variety of sinister 
objects. There in the midst of the case s full of skulls and old bottles stood 
Draco Malfoy with his back to them, just visible beyond the very same large black cabinet in which Harry had once hidden to avoid Malfoy and his 
father. Judging by the movements of Malfoy's hands, he was talking 
animatedly. The proprietor of the shop, Mr. Borgin, an oily-haired, stooping 
man, stood facing Malfoy. He was wear ing a curious expression of mingled 
resentment and fear. 
 
"If only we could hear what they're saying!" said Hermione. 
 
"We can!" said Ron excite dly. "Hang on, damn." 
 
He dropped a couple more of the b oxes he was still clutching as he 
fumbled with the largest. 
 
"Extendable Ears, look!" 
 
"Fantastic!" said Hermione, as R on unraveled the long, flesh-colored 
strings and began to feed them toward the bottom of the door. "Oh, I hope the door isn't Imperturbable..." 
 
"No!" said Ron gleefully. "Listen!" 
 
They put their heads together and lis tened intently to the ends of the 
strings, through which Malfoy's voice could be heard loud and clear, as though a radio had been turned on. 
 
"... you know how to fix it?" 
 "Possibly," said Borgin, in a tone  that suggested he was unwilling to 
commit himself. "I'll need to see it, though. Why don't you bring it into the 
shop?" 
 
"I can't," said Malfoy. "It's got to st ay put. I just need you to tell me how 
to do it." 
 
Harry saw Borgin lick his lips nervously. 
 
"Well, without seeing it, I must say it wi ll be a very difficult job, perhaps 
impossible. I couldn't guarantee anything." 
 
"No?" said Malfoy, and Harry knew, ju st by his tone, that Malfoy was 
sneering. "Perhaps this will make you more confident." 
 
He moved toward Borgin and was blocked from view by the cabinet. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione shuffled sideways to try and keep him in sight, 
but all they could see was Borg in, looking very frightened. 
 
"Tell anyone," said Maifoy, "and there will be retribution. You know 
Fenrir Greyback? He's a family friend. He'll be dropping in from time to time to make sure you're giving th e problem your full attention." 
 
"There will be no need for..." 
 
"I'll decide that," said Malfoy. "Well, I'd better be off. A nd don't forget to 
keep that one safe, I'll need it."  
"Perhaps you'd like to take it now?" 
 
"No, of course I wouldn't, you stupid, little man, how would I look 
carrying that down the street? Just don't sell it." 
 
"Of course not... sir." 
 
Borgin made a bow as deep as th e one Harry had once seen him give 
Lucius Malfoy. 
 
"Not a word to anyone, Borgin, and that includes my mother, 
understand?" 
 
"Naturally, naturally," murmured Borgin, bowing again. 
 
Next moment, the bell over the door ti nkled loudly as Malfoy stalked out 
of the shop looking very pleased with himself. He passed so close to Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione that they felt the cloak flutter around their knees again. 
Inside the shop, Borgin remained fro zen; his unctuous smile had vanished; 
he looked worried. 
 
"What was that about?" whispered R on, reeling in the Extendable Ears. 
 
"Dunno," said Harry, thinking hard. "He wants something mended... and 
he wants to reserve something in ther e... Could you see what he pointed at 
when he said 'that one'?"  
"No, he was behind that cabinet..." 
 
"You two stay here," whispered Hermione. 
 
"What are you... ?" 
 
But Hermione had already ducked out from under the cloak. She checked 
her hair in the reflection in the glass,  then marched into the shop, setting the 
bell tinkling again. Ron hastily fed th e Extendable Ears back under the door 
and passed one of the strings to Harry. 
 
"Hello, horrible morning, isn't it?" Herm ione said brightly to Borgin, who 
did not answer, but cast her a suspic ious look. Humming cheerily, Hermione 
strolled through the jumble of objects on display. 
 
"Is this necklace for sale?" she asked,  pausing beside a glass-fronted case. 
 
"If you've got one and a half thousand Galleons," said Mr. Borgin coldly. 
 
"Oh... er... no, I haven't got quite th at much," said Hermione, walking on. 
"And... what about this lovely... um... skull?" 
 
"Sixteen Galleons." 
 
"So it's for sale, then? It is n't being... kept for anyone?" 
 Mr. Borgin squinted at her. Harry had the nasty feeling he knew exactly 
what Hermione was up to. Apparently Hermione felt she had been rumbled 
too because she suddenly threw caution to the winds. 
 
"The thing is, that... er... boy who wa s in here just now, Draco Malfoy, 
well, he's a friend of mine , and I want to get him a birthday present, but if 
he's already reserved anything, I obviously don't want to get him the same 
thing, so... um..." 
 
It was a pretty lame story in Harry 's opinion, and apparently Borgin 
thought so too. 
 
"Out," he said sharply. "Get out!" 
 
Hermione did not wait to be asked tw ice, but hurried to the door with 
Borgin at her heels. As the bell tinkled again, Borgin slammed the door behind her and put up the closed sign. 
 
"Ah well," said Ron, throwing the cl oak back over Hermione. "Worth a 
try, but you were a bit obvious..." 
 
"Well, next time you can show me how it's done, Master of Mystery!" she 
snapped. 
 
Ron and Hermione bickered a ll the way back to Weasleys' 
 Wizard Wheezes, where they were forced to stop so that they could dodge 
undetected around a very anxious-look ing Mrs. Weasley and Hagrid, who 
had clearly noticed their absence. On ce in the shop, Harry whipped off the 
Invisibility Cloak, hid it in his bag, and joined in with the other two when 
they insisted, in answer to Mrs. Weasle ys accusations, that they had been in 
the back room all along, and that sh e could not have looked properly.  
CHAPTER 7
 
Harry spent a lot of the last week  of the holidays pondering the meaning 
of Malfoy's behavior in Knockturn Alle y. What disturbed him most was the 
satisfied look on Malfoy's face as he had left the shop. Nothing that made 
Malfoy look that happy could be good news. To his slight annoyance, 
however, neither Ron nor Hermione seem ed quite as curious about Malfoy's 
activities as he was; or at least, they  seemed to get bored of discussing it 
after a few days. 
 
"Yes, I've already agreed it was fi shy, Harry," said Hermione a little 
impatiently. She was sitting on the wi ndowsill in Fred and George's room 
with her feet up on one of the car dboard boxes and had only grudgingly 
looked up from her new copy of Advanced Rune Tran slation. "But haven't 
we agreed there could be a lot of explanations?" 
 
"Maybe he's broken his Hand of Glory" said Ron vaguely, as he attempted 
to straighten his broomstick's bent ta il twigs. "Remember that shriveled-up 
arm Malfoy had?" 
 
"But what about when he said, 'Don't forget to keep that one safe'?" asked 
Harry for the umpteenth time. "That soun ded to me like Borgin's got another 
one of the broken objects,  and Malfoy wants both." 
 
"You reckon?" said Ron, now trying to scrape so me dirt off his broom 
handle. 
 "Yeah, I do," said Harry. When neith er Ron nor Hermione answered, he 
said, "Malfoy's father's in Azkaban. Don't you think Malfoy’ d like revenge?" 
 
Ron looked up, blinking. 
 
"Malfoy, revenge? What  can he do about it?" 
 
"That's my point, I don't know!" said  Harry, frustrated. "But he's up to 
something and I think we should take it seriously. His father's a Death Eater 
and …" 
 
Harry broke off, his eyes fixed on the window behind Hermione, his 
mouth open. A startling thought had just occurred to him. 
 
"Harry?" said Hermione in an anxious voice. "What's wrong?" 
 
"Your scar's not hurting again, is it?" asked Ron nervously. 
 
"He's a Death Eater," said Harry slow ly. "He's replaced his father as a 
Death Eater!" 
 
There was a silence; then Ron erupted in laughter. "Malfoy? He's sixteen, 
Harry! You think You-Know-Who would let Malfoy join?" 
 
"It seems very unlikely, Harry," said Hermione in a repressive sort of 
voice. "What makes you think … ?" 
 "In Madam Malkin's. She didn't touch him, but he yelled and jerked his 
arm away from her when she went to roll up his sleeve. It was his left arm. 
He's been branded with the Dark Mark." 
 
Ron and Hermione l ooked at each other. 
 
"Well..." said Ron, sound ing thoroughly unconvinced. 
 
"I think he just wanted to get out  of there, Harry," said Hermione. 
 
"He showed Borgin something we  couldn't see," Harry pressed on 
stubbornly. "Something that seriously scared Borgin. It was the Mark, I 
know it… he was showing Borgin who he was dealing with, you saw how 
seriously Borgin took him!" 
 
Ron and Hermione exchanged another look. 
 
"I'm not sure, Harry..." 
 
"Yeah, I still don't reckon You-Know-Who would let Malfoy join..." 
 
Annoyed, but absolutely convinced he was right, Harry snatched up a pile 
of filthy Quidditch robes and left the room; Mrs. Weasley had been urging 
them for days not to leave their wash ing and packing until the last moment. 
On the landing he bumped into Ginny , who was returning to her room 
carrying a pile of fresh ly laundered clothes. 
 "I wouldn't go in the kitchen just now," she warned him. "There's a lot of 
Phlegm around." 
 
"I'll be careful not to slip in it." Harry smiled. 
 
Sure enough, when he entered the kitc hen it was to find Fleur sitting at the 
kitchen table, in full flow about plans for her wedding to Bill, while Mrs. 
Weasley kept watch over a pile of self-peeling sprouts, looking bad-
tempered. 
 
"... Bill and I 'ave almost decide d on only two bridesmaids, Ginny and 
Gabrielle will look very sweet togezzer. I am theenking of dressing zem in 
pale gold, pink would of course be 'orrible with Ginny's 'air!" 
 
"Ah, Harry!" said Mrs. Weasley l oudly, cutting across Fleur's monologue. 
"Good, I wanted to explain about the security arrangements for the journey 
to Hogwarts tomorrow. We've got Mini stry cars again, and there will be 
Aurors waiting at the station." 
 
"Is Tonks going to be there?" aske d Harry, handing over his Quidditch 
things. 
 
"No, I don't think so, she's been stationed somewhere else from what 
Arthur said." 
 
"She has let 'erself go, zat Tonks,"  Fleur mused, examining her own 
stunning reflection in the back of a teaspoon. "A big mistake if you ask."  
"Yes, thank you," said Mrs. Weasley tartly, cutting across Fleur again. 
"You'd better get on, Harry, I want the trunks ready tonight, if possible, so 
we don't have the usual last-minute scramble." 
 
And in fact, their departure the following morning was smoother than 
usual. The Ministry cars glided up to the front of the Burrow to find them 
waiting, trunks packed; Hermione's cat, Crookshanks, safely enclosed in his 
traveling basket; and Hedwig; Ron' s owl, Pig-widgeon; and Ginny's new 
purple Pygmy Puff, Arnold, in cages. 
 
"Au revoir, 'Any," said Fleur throa tily, kissing him good-bye. Ron hurried 
forward, looking hopeful, but Ginny stuck out her foot and Ron fell, 
sprawling in the dust at Fleur's feet. Fu rious, red-faced, and dirt-spattered, he 
hurried into the car w ithout saying good-bye. 
 
There was no cheerful Hagrid waiting fo r them at King's Cross Station. 
Instead, two grim-faced, bearded Auro rs in dark Muggle suits moved 
forward the moment the cars stopped and,  flanking the party, marched them 
into the station without speaking. 
 
"Quick, quick, through the barrier," said Mrs. Weasley, who 
 
seemed a little flustered by this auster e efficiency. "Harry had better go 
first, with…" 
 She looked inquiringly at one of th e Aurors, who nodded briefly, seized 
Harry's upper arm, and attempted to steer him toward the barrier between 
platforms nine and ten. 
 
"I can walk, thanks," said Harry i rritably, jerking his arm out of the 
Auror's grip. He pushed his trolley direc tly at the solid barrier, ignoring his 
silent companion, and found himself, a second later, standing on platform 
nine and three-quarters, where the s carlet Hogwarts Express stood belching 
steam over the crowd. 
 
Hermione and the Weasleys joined him within seconds. Without waiting 
to consult his grim-faced Auror, Harry  motioned to Ron and Hermione to 
follow him up the platform, looking  for an empty compartment. 
 
"We can't, Harry," said Hermione, l ooking apologetic. "R on and I've got 
to go to the prefects' carriage first a nd then patrol the corridors for a bit." 
 
"Oh yeah, I forgot," said Harry. 
 
"You'd better get straight on the trai n, all of you, you' ve only got a few 
minutes to go," said Mrs. Weasley, consulting her watch.  "Well, have a 
lovely term, Ron..." 
 
"Mr. Weasley, can I have a quick wo rd?" said Harry, making up his mind 
on the spur of the moment. 
 "Of course," said Mr. Weasley, wh o looked slightly surprised, but 
followed Harry out of earshot of the others nevertheless. 
 
Harry had thought it through carefully and come to the conclusion that, if 
he was to tell anyone, Mr. Weasley was the right person; firstly, because he 
worked at the Ministry and was therefor e in the best position to make further 
investigations, and secondly, 
 
because he thought that there was not too much risk of Mr. Weasley 
exploding with anger. 
 
He could see Mrs. Weasley and the grim-faced Auror casting the pair of 
them suspicious looks as they moved away. 
 
"When we were in Diagon Alley, " Harry began, but Mr. Weasley 
forestalled him with a grimace. 
 
"Am I about to discover where you, Ron, and Hermione disappeared to 
while you were supposed to be in the back room of Fred and George's 
shop?" 
 
"How did you…?" 
 
"Harry, please. You're talking to th e man who raised Fred and George." 
 
"Er... yeah, all right, we weren't in th e back room." "Very well, then, let's 
hear the worst."  
"Well, we followed Draco Malfoy. We used my Invisibility Cloak." 
 
"Did you have any particular reason fo r doing so, or was it a mere whim?" 
 
"Because I thought Malfoy was up to something," said Harry, 
disregarding Mr. Weasley's look of mingled exasperation and amusement. 
"He'd given his mother the slip and I wanted to know why." 
 
"Of course you did," said Mr. Weasle y, sounding resigned. "Well? Did 
you find out why?" 
 
"He went into Borgin and Burkes," said Harry, "and started bullying the 
bloke in there, Borgin, to help him fix something. And he said he wanted 
Borgin to keep something else for him. He made it sound like it was the 
same kind of thing that needed fixi ng. Like they were a pair. And..." 
 
Harry took a deep breath. 
 
"There's something else. We saw Malfoy jump about a mile when Madam 
Malkin tried to touch his left arm. I think he's been branded with the Dark 
Mark. 1 think he's replaced hi s father as a Death Eater." 
 
Mr. Weasley looked taken aback. After a moment he said, "Harry, I doubt 
whether You-Know-Who would allow a sixteen-year-old…" 
 "Does anyone really know what You- Know-Who would or wouldn't do?" 
asked Harry angrily. "Mr. Weasley, I'm sorry, but isn't it worth 
investigating? If Malfoy wants something fixing, and he needs to threaten 
Borgin to get it done, it's probably something Dark or dangerous, isn't it?" 
 
"I doubt it, to be honest, Harry," said Mr. Weasley slowly. "You see, 
when Lucius Malfoy was arrested, we raided his house. We took away everything that might have been dangerous." "I think you missed 
something," said Harry stubbornly. "W ell, maybe," said Mr. Weasley, but 
Harry could tell that Mr. Weasley was humoring him. 
 
There was a whistle behind them; near ly everyone had boarded the train 
and the doors were closing. 
 
"You'd better hurry!' said Mr. Weasley, as Mrs. Weasley cried, "Harry, 
quickly!" 
 
He hurried forward and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley helped him load his trunk 
onto the train. 
 
"Now, dear, you're coming to us for Christmas, it's all fixed with 
Dumbledore, so we'll see you quite so on," said Mrs. Weasley through the 
window, as Harry slammed the door shut  behind him and the train began to 
move. "You make sure you look after yourself and…" 
 
The train was gathering speed. 
 "…be good and…" , She was jogging to keep up now. 
 
"…stay safe!" 
 
Harry waved until the train had turned a corner and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley 
were lost to view, then turned to see where the others had got to. He 
supposed Ron and Hermione  were cloistered in the prefects' carriage, but 
Ginny was a little way along the corridor, chatting to some friends. He made 
his way toward her, dragging his trunk. 
 
People stared shamelessly as he a pproached. They even pressed their 
faces against the windows of their comp artments to get a look at him. He 
had expected an upswing in the amount  of gaping and gawping he would 
have to endure this term after all th e "Chosen One" rumors in the Daily 
Prophet, but he did not enjoy the sens ation of standing in a very bright 
spotlight. He tapped Ginny on the shoulder. 
 
"Fancy trying to fi nd a compartment?" 
 
"I can't, Harry, I said I' d meet Dean," said Ginny brightly. "See you later." 
 
"Right," said Harry. He felt a strange  twinge of annoyance as she walked 
away, her long red hair dancing behind her; he had become so used to her 
presence over the summer that he had almost forgotten that Ginny did not 
hang around with him, Ron,  and Hermione while at school. Then he blinked 
and looked around: He was surrou nded by mesmerized girls. 
 "Hi, Harry!" said a familiar voice from behind him. 
 
"Neville!" said Harry in relief, turn ing to see a round-faced boy struggling 
toward him. 
 
"Hello, Harry," said a girl with long hair and large misty eyes, who was 
just behind Neville. 
 
"Luna, hi, how are you?" 
 
"Very well, thank you," sa id Luna. She was clutching a magazine to her 
chest; large letters on the front announ ced that there was a pair of free 
Spectrespecs inside. 
 
"Quibbler still going strong, then?" asked Harry, who felt a certain 
fondness for the magazine, having given it an exclusive interview the 
previous year. 
 
"Oh yes, circulation's we ll up," said Luna happily. 
 
"Let's find seats," said Harry, and the three of them set off along the train 
through hordes of silently staring st udents. At last they found an empty 
compartment, and Harry hurried inside gratefully. 
 
"They're even staring at us? said Neville, indicating himself and Luna. 
"Because we're with you!" 
 "They're staring at you because you were  at the Ministry too," said Harry, 
as he hoisted his trunk into the luggage  rack. "Our little adventure there was 
all over the Daily Prophet, you must've 
 
seen it." 
 
"Yes, I thought Gran would be angry ab out all the publicity," said Neville, 
"but she was really pleased. Says I'm starting to live up to my dad at long 
last. She bought me a new wand, look!" 
 
He pulled it out and showed it to Harry. 
 
"Cherry and unicorn hair,"  he said proudly. "We think it was one of the 
last Ollivander ever sold, he vanish ed next day … oi, come back here, 
Trevor!" 
 
And he dived under the seat to retrie ve his toad as it made one of its 
frequent bids for freedom. 
 
"Are we still doing D.A. meetings this year, Harry?" asked Luna, 
 
who was detaching a pair of psyche delic spectacles from the middle of 
The Quibbler. 
 
"No point now we've got rid of Umbr idge, is there?" said Harry, sitting 
down. Neville bumped his head against the seat as he emerged from under it. 
He looked most disappointed.  
"I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!" 
 
"I enjoyed the meetings too," said Luna serenely. "It was like having 
friends." 
 
This was one of those uncomfortable things Luna often said and which 
made Harry feel a squirming mixture of pity and embarrassment. Before he 
could respond, however, there was a di sturbance outside their compartment 
door; a group of fourth-year girls was wh ispering and giggling together on 
the other side of the glass. 
 
"You ask him!" 
 
No, you! 
 
"I'll do it!" 
 
And one of them, a bold-looking girl with large dark eyes, a prominent 
chin, and long black hair pus hed her way through the door. 
 
"Hi, Harry, I'm Romilda, Romilda Vane ," she said loudly and confidently. 
"Why don't you join us in our compartment? You don't have to sit with 
them," she added in a stage whisper, indicating Neville's bottom, which was 
sticking out from under the seat again as he groped around for Trevor, and 
Luna, who was now wearing her free Sp ectrespecs, which gave her the look 
of a demented, multicolored owl.  
"They're friends of mine," said Harry coldly. 
 
"Oh," said the girl, looking ve ry surprised. "Oh. Okay." 
 
And she withdrew, sliding the door closed behind her. 
 
"People expect you 10 have cooler frie nds than us," said Luna, once again 
displaying her knack fo r embarrassing honesty. 
 
"You are cool," said Harry shortly. "N one of them was at the Ministry. 
They didn't fight with me." 
 
"That's a very nice thing to say," beamed Luna. Then she pushed her 
Spectrespecs farther up her nose and settled down to read The 
 
Quibbler. 
 
"We didn't face him, though," said Neville, emerging from under the seat 
with fluff and dust in his hair and a resigned-looking Trevor in his hand. 
"You did. You should hear my gran ta lk about you. 'That Harry Potter's got 
more backbone than the whole Ministry of Magic put together!' She'd give 
anything to have you as a grand-son... 
 
Harry laughed uncomfortably and change d the subject to OWL. results as 
soon as he could. While Neville recited his grades and wondered aloud whether he would be allo wed to take a Transfiguration NEWT, with only an 
"Acceptable," Harry watched hi m without really listening. 
 
Neville's childhood had been blighted  by Voldemort just as much as 
Harry's had, but Neville had no idea how close he had come to having 
Harry's destiny. The prophecy could have  referred to either of them, yet, for 
his own inscrutable reasons, Voldemort had chosen to believe that Harry 
was the one meant. 
 
Had Voldemort chosen Neville, it woul d be Neville sittin g opposite Harry 
bearing the lightning-shaped scar and the weight of the prophecy... Or would 
it? Would Neville’s mother have died to save him, as Lily had died for 
Harry? Surely she would... But what if she had been unable to stand between 
her son and Voldemort? Would there then have been no "Chosen One" at 
all? An empty seat where Neville now  sat and a scarless Harry who would 
have been kissed good-bye by his own mother, not Ron's? 
 
"You all right, Harry? You look funny," said Neville. 
 
Harry started. "Sorry … I …" 
 
"Wrackspurt got you?" asked Luna sympathetically, peering at Harry 
through her enormous colored spectacles. 
 
"I… what?" 
 "A Wrackspurt... They're invisible. Th ey float in through your ears and 
make your brain go fuzzy," she said. "I thought I felt one zooming around in 
here." 
 
She flapped her hands at thin air, as though beating off large invisible 
moths. Harry and Neville caught each othe r's eyes and hastily began to talk 
of Quidditch. 
 
The weather beyond the train windows was as patchy as it had been all 
summer; they passed through  stretches of the chilling mist, then out into 
weak, clear sunlight. It was during one of the clear spells , when the sun was 
visible almost directly overhead, that Ron and Hermione entered the 
compartment at last. 
 
"Wish the lunch trolley would hurry up , I'm starving," said Ron longingly, 
slumping into the seat beside Harry and rubbing his stomach. "Hi, Neville. 
Hi, Luna. Guess what?" he added, tu rning to Harry. "Malfoy s not doing 
prefect duty. He's just sitting in his compartment with the other Slytherins, 
we saw him when we passed." 
 
Harry sat up straight, interested. It was not like Malfoy to pass up the 
chance to demonstrate his power as pref ect, which he had happily abused all 
the previous year. 
 
"What did he do when he saw you?" 
 
"The usual," said Ron indiffer ently, demonstrating a rude hand  
gesture. "Not like him, though, is it?  Well… that is” -- he did the hand 
gesture again -- "but why isn't he out there bullying first years? 
 
"Dunno," said Harry, but his mind was racing. Didn't this look as though 
Malfoy had more important things on his mind than bullying younger 
students? 
 
"Maybe he preferred the Inquisitori al Squad," said Hermione. "Maybe 
being a prefect seems a bit tame after that." 
 
"I don't think so," said Harry. "I think he's …" 
 
But before he could expound on his theory, the compartment door slid 
open again and a breathless third-year girl stepped inside. 
 
"I'm supposed to deliver these to  Neville Longbottom and Harry P-
Potter," she faltered, as he r eyes met Harry's and she turned scarlet. She was 
holding out two scrolls of parchment tie d with violet ribbon. Perplexed, 
Harry and Neville took the scroll addre ssed to each of them and the girl 
stumbled back out of the compartment. 
 
"What is it?" Ron demanded,  as Harry unrolled his. 
 
"An invitation," said Harry. 
 
 Harry, 
 
I would be delighted if you would jo in me for a bite of lunch in 
compartment C. 
 
Sincerely , Horace 
 
"But what does he want me for?" as ked Neville nervous ly, as though he 
was expecting detention. 
 
"No idea," said Harry, which was not entirely true, though he had no 
proof yet that his hunch was correct. "L isten," he added, seized by a sudden 
brain wave, "let's go under the Invisibility Cloak, then we might get a good 
look at Malfoy on the way, see what he's up to." 
 
This idea, however, came to nothing:  The corridors, which were packed 
with people on the lookout for the lu nch trolley, were impossible to 
negotiate while wearing the cloak. Harr y stowed it regretfully back in his 
bag, reflecting that it would have been  nice to wear it just to avoid all the 
staring, which seemed to have increased  in intensity even since he had last 
walked down the train. Every now a nd then, students would hurtle out of 
their compartments to get a better look at him. The exception was Cho 
Chang, who darted into her compartm ent when she saw Harry coming. As 
Harry passed the window, he saw her deep  in determined conversation with 
her friend Marietta, who wa s wearing a very thick layer of makeup that did 
not entirely obscure the odd formation of pimples still etched across her face. Smirking slightly, Harry pushed on. 
 When they reached compar tment C, they saw at once that they were not 
Slughorn's only invitees, although judging by the enthusiasm of Slughorn's 
welcome, Harry was the mo st warmly anticipated. 
 
"Harry, m'boy!" said Slughor n, jumping up at the sight of him so that his 
great velvet-covered belly seemed to  fill all the remaining space in the 
compartment. His shiny bald head a nd great silvery mustache gleamed as 
brightly in the sunlight as the golden 
 
buttons on his waistcoa t. "Good to see you, go od to see you! And you 
must be Mr. Longbottom!" 
 
Neville nodded, looking scared. At a gesture from Slughorn, they sat 
down opposite each other in the only tw o empty seats, which were nearest 
the door. Harry glanced around at their fellow guests. He recognized a 
Slytherin from their year, a tall black boy with high cheekbones and long, slanting eyes; there were also two se venth-year boys Harry did not know 
and, squashed in the corner beside  Slughorn and looking as though she was 
not entirely sure how she had got there, Ginny. 
 
"Now, do you know everyone?" Slughorn asked Harry and Neville. 
"Blaise Zabini is in your year, of course --" 
 
Zabini did not make any sign of rec ognition or greeting, nor did Harry or 
Neville: Gryffindor and Sl ytherin students loathed each other on principle. 
 "This is Cormac McLaggen, perhap s you've come across each other … ? 
No?" 
 
McLaggen, a large, wiry-haired yout h, raised a hand, and Harry and 
Neville nodded back at him. 
 
"… and this is Marcus Belby, I don't know whether …?" 
 
Belby, who was thin and nervous-lo oking, gave a strained smile. 
 
"… and this charming young lady tells me she knows you!" Slughorn 
finished. 
 
Ginny grimaced at Harry and Nev ille from behind Slughorn's back. 
 
"Well now, this is most pleasant," said Slughorn cozily. "A chance to get 
to know you all a little better. Here, take a napki n. I've packed my own 
lunch; the trolley, as I remember it, is heavy on 
 
licorice wands, and a poor old man's di gestive system isn't quite up to 
such things... Pheasant, Belby?" 
 
Belby started and accepted what l ooked like half a cold pheasant. 
 
"I was just telling young Marcus here  that I had the pleasure of teaching 
his Uncle Damocles," Slughorn told Harry and Neville, now passing around a basket of rolls. "Outstanding wizard , outstanding, and his Order of Merlin 
most well-deserved. Do you see mu ch of your uncle, Marcus?" 
 
Unfortunately, Beiby had just taken a large mouthful of pheasant; in his 
haste to answer Slughorn he swallowed t oo fast, turned purple, and began to 
choke. 
 
"Anapneo," said Slughorn calmly, pointing his wand at Belby, whose 
airway seemed to clear at once. 
 
"Not... not much of him, no," gasp ed Belby, his eyes streaming. 
 
"Well, of course, I daresay he's busy," said Slughorn, looking 
questioningly at Belby. "I doubt he invented the Wolfsbane Potion without 
considerable hard work!" 
 
"I suppose..." said Belby, who seemed afraid to take another bite of 
pheasant until he was sure that Slughorn had finished with him. "Er... he and 
my dad don't get on very well, you see, so I don't really know much about..." 
 
His voice tailed away as Slughorn gave him a cold smile and turned to 
McLaggen instead. 
 
"Now, you, Cormac," said Slughorn, "I happen to know you see a lot of 
your Uncle Tiberius, because he has a ra ther splendid picture of the two of 
you hunting nogtails in, I think, Norfolk?" 
 "Oh, yeah, that was fun, that was," said McLaggen. "We went with Bertie 
Higgs and Rufus Scrimgeour; this was before he became Minister, obviously 
…" 
 
"Ah, you know Bertie and Rufus too? " beamed Slughorn, now offering 
around a small tray of pies; somehow , Belby was missed out. "Now tell 
me..." 
 
It was as Harry had suspected. Everyone here seemed to have been invited 
because they were connected to somebody well-known or  influential… 
everyone except Ginny. Zabini, who was interrogated after McLaggen, 
turned out to have a famously beautiful witch for a moth er (from what Harry 
could make out, she had been married  seven times, each of her husbands 
dying mysteriously and leaving her m ounds of gold). It was Neville's turn 
next: This was a very uncomfortable te n minutes, for Neville's parents, well-
known Aurors, had been tortured into insanity by Bellatrix  Lestrange and a 
couple of Death Eater cronies. At the end of Neville's interview, Harry had 
the impression that Slughorn was rese rving judgment on Neville, yet to see 
whether he had any of his parents' flair. 
 
"And now," said Slughorn, shifting massive ly in his seat with the air of a 
compere introducing his star act. "Ha rry Potter! Where to begin? I feel I 
barely scratched the surface wh en we met over the summer!" He 
contemplated Harry for a moment as th ough he was a particularly large and 
succulent piece of pheasant, then said, "'The Chosen On e,' they're calling 
you now!" 
 Harry said nothing. Belby, McLaggen, a nd Zabini were all staring at him. 
 
"Of course," said Slughor n, watching Harry closel y, "there have been 
rumors for years... I reme mber when … well … after that terrible night … 
Lily … James … and you survived … and the word was that you must have 
powers beyond the ordinary …" 
 
Zabini gave a tiny little cough th at was clearly supposed to 
 
indicate amused skepticism. An angry voice burst out from behind 
Slughorn. 
 
"Yeah, Zabini, because you're so talented... at posing..." 
 
"Oh dear!" chuckled Slughorn comfortably, looking ar ound at Ginny, who 
was glaring at Zabini around Slughorn's gr eat belly. "You want to be careful, 
Blaise! I saw this young lady perform the most marvelous Bat-Bogey Hex as 
I was passing her carriage! I wouldn't cross her!" 
 
Zabini merely looked contemptuous. 
 
"Anyway," said Slughorn, turning back  to Harry. "Such rumors this 
summer. Of course, one doesn't know what  to believe, the Prophet has been 
known to print inaccuracies, make mist akes … but there seems little doubt, 
given the number of witnesses, that there was quite a disturbance at the 
Ministry and that you were there in the thick of it all!" 
 Harry, who could not see any way out of  this without flatly lying, nodded 
but still said nothing. Slughorn beamed at him. 
 
"So modest, so modest, no wonder Dumbledore is so fond … you were 
there, then? But the rest of the stor ies … so sensationa l, of course, one 
doesn't know quite what to believe … this fabled prophecy, for instance …" 
 
"We never heard a prophecy," said Nevi lle, turning geranium pink as he 
said it. 
 
"That's right," said Ginny staunchly. "Neville and I were both there too, 
and all this 'Chosen One' rubbish is  just the Prophet making things up as 
usual." 
 
"You were both there too, were you?" said Slughorn with great interest, 
looking from Ginny to Neville, but both of  them sat clam-like before his 
encouraging smile. 
 
"Yes... well... it is true that the Pr ophet often exaggerate s, of course..." 
Slughorn said, sounding a little disappo inted. "I remember dear Gwenog 
telling me (Gwenog Jones, I mean, of course, Captain of the Holyhead 
Harpies) …" 
 
He meandered off into a long-winde d reminiscence, but Harry had the 
distinct impression that Slughorn had not finished with him, and that he had 
not been convinced by Neville and Ginny. 
 The afternoon wore on with more an ecdotes about illustrious wizards 
Slughorn had taught, all of whom had been  delighted to join what he called 
the "Slug Club" at Hogwarts. Harry coul d not wait to leave, but couldn't see 
how to do so politely. Finally the trai n emerged from yet another long misty 
stretch into a red sunset, and Slug horn looked around, blinking in the 
twilight. 
 
"Good gracious, it's getting dark already!  I didn't notice that they'd lit the 
lamps! You'd better go and change into  your robes, all of  you. McLaggen, 
you must drop by and borrow that book  on nogtails. Harry, Blaise … any 
time you're passing. Same goes for you, miss," he twinkled at Ginny. "Well, 
off you go, off you go!" 
 
As he pushed past Harry into the da rkening corridor, Zabini shot him a 
filthy look that Harry returned with  interest. He, Ginny, and Neville 
followed Zabini back along the train. 
 
"I'm glad that's over," muttered Neville . "Strange man, isn't he?" "Yeah, 
he is a bit," said Harry, his eyes on Zabini. "How come you ended up in 
there, Ginny?" 
 
"He saw me hex Zacharias Smith," sa id Ginny. "You remember that idiot 
from Hufflepuff who was in the D.A.? He kept on and on asking about what 
happened at the Ministry and in the e nd he annoyed me so much I hexed him 
… when Slughorn came in I thought I was going to got detention, but he just 
thought it was ;i really good hex and invited me to lunch! Mad, eh?" 
 "Better reason for inviting someone than  because their mother's famous," 
said Harry, scowling at the back of Za bini's head, "or because their uncle…" 
 
But he broke off. An idea had just  occurred to him, a reckless but 
potentially wonderful idea... In a minute' s time, Zabini was going to reenter 
the Slytherin sixth-year compartmen t and Malfoy would be sitting there, 
thinking himself unheard by anybody except fellow Slytherins... If Harry 
could only enter, unseen, behind him, wh at might he not see or hear? True, 
there was little of the journey left … Hogsmeade Station had to be less than 
half an hour away, judging by the wild ness of the scenery flashing by the 
windows … but nobody else seemed prep ared to take Harry's suspicions 
seriously, so it was down to him to prove them. 
 
"I'll see you two later," said Harry  under his breath, pulling out his 
Invisibility Cloak and flinging it over himself. 
 
"But what're you … ?" asked Neville. 
 
"Later!" whispered Harry, darting afte r Zabini as quietly as possible, 
though the rattling of the train made  such caution almost pointless. 
 
The corridors were almost complete ly empty now. Nearly everyone had 
returned to their carriages to change into their school robes and pack up their 
possessions. Though he was as close as  he could get to Zabini without 
touching him, Harry was not quick enough to slip into the compartment 
when Zabini opened the door. Zabini wa s already sliding it shut when Harry 
hastily stuck out his foot to prevent it closing.  
"What's wrong with this thing?" said Zabini angrily as he smashed the 
sliding door repeatedly into Harry's foot. 
 
Harry seized the door and pushed it open,  hard; Zabini, still clinging on to 
the handle, toppled over sideways into  Gregory Goyle's lap, and in the 
ensuing ruckus, Harry darted into th e compartment, leapt onto Zabini's 
temporarily empty seat, and hoisted hims elf up into the luggage rack. It was 
fortunate that Goyle and Zabini were sn arling at each other, drawing all eyes 
onto them, for Harry was quite sure his fe et and ankles had been revealed as 
the cloak had flapped around them; in deed, for one horrible moment he 
thought he saw Malfoy's eyes follow hi s trainer as it whipped upward out of 
sight. But then Goyle slammed the door shut and flung Zabini off him; 
Zabini collapsed into his own seat l ooking ruffled, Vincent Crabbe returned 
to his comic, and Malfoy, sniggering,  lay back down across two seats with 
his head in Pansy Parkinsons lap. Ha rry lay curled uncomfortably under the 
cloak to ensure that every inch of him remained hidden,  and watched Pansy 
stroke the sleek blond hair off Malfoy' s forehead, smirking as she did so, as 
though anyone would have l oved to have been in he r place. The lanterns 
swinging from the carriage ceiling cast a bright light over the scene: Harry 
could read every word of Crabbe's comic directly 
 
below him. 
 
"So, Zabini," said Malfoy,  "what did Slughorn want?" 
 
"Just trying to make up to well-connected people," said Zabini,  
who was still glowering at Goyle. "Not that he managed to find 
 
many." 
 
This information did not seem to please Malfoy. "Who else had he 
invited?" he demanded. 
 
"McLaggen from Gryffindor," said Zabini. 
 
"Oh yeah, his uncle's big in the Ministry," said Malfoy. 
 
"… someone else called Belby, from Ravenclaw …" 
 
"Not him, he's a prat!" said Pansy. 
 
"… and Longbottom, Potter, and that  Weasley girl," finished Zabini. 
 
Malfoy sat up very suddenly, k nocking Pansy's hand aside. 
 
"He invited Longbottom?." 
 
"Well, I assume so, as Longbottom was there," said Zabini indifferently. 
 
"What's Longbottom got to interest Slughorn?" 
 
Zabini shrugged.  
"Potter, precious Potter, obviously he wa nted a look at 'the Chosen One,'" 
sneered Malfoy, "but that Weasley gi rl! What's so special about her?” 
 
"A lot of boys like her," said Pansy,  watching Malfoy out of the corner of 
her eyes for his reaction. "Even you think she's good-looking, don't you, 
Blaise, and we all know how  hard you are to please! 
 
"I wouldn't touch a filthy little blood traitor like her whatever she looked 
like," said Zabini coldly, and Pansy looked pleased. Malfoy sank back across 
her lap and allowed he r to resume the stroking of his hair. 
 
"Well, I pity Slughorn's taste. Maybe  he's going a bit senile. Shame, my 
father always said he was a good wizard in  his day. My father used to be a 
bit of a favorite of his. Slughorn probabl y hasn't heard I'm on the train, or…" 
 
"I wouldn't bank on an invitation," said Zabini. "He asked me about Notts 
father when I first arrived. They used to be old 
 
friends, apparently, but when he heard he'd been caught at the Ministry he 
didn't look happy, and Nott didn't get an invitation, did he? 1 don't think Slughorn's interested in Death Eaters." 
 
Malfoy looked angry, but forced out a singularly humorless laugh. 
 
"Well, who cares what he's interest ed in? What is he, when you come 
down to it? Just some stupid teacher." Malfoy yawned ostentatiously. "I mean, I might not even be at Hogwarts next year, what's it matter to me if 
some fat old has-been likes me or not?" 
 
"What do you mean, you might not be at Hogwarts next year?" said Pansy 
indignantly, ceasing grooming Malfoy at once. 
 
"Well, you never know," sa id Malfoy with the ghost of a smirk. "I might 
have … er … moved on to bi gger and better things." 
 
Crouched in the luggage rack under his cloak, Harry's heart began to race. 
What would Ron and Herm ione say about this? Cr abbe and Goyle were 
gawping at Malfoy; apparently they ha d had no inkling of any plans to move 
on to bigger and better things. Even Zabi ni had allowed a look of curiosity to 
mar his haughty features. Pansy resumed the slow stroking of Malfoy s hair, 
looking dumbfounded. 
 
"Do you mean…” 
 
Malfoy shrugged. 
 
"Mother wants me to complete my education, but personally, I don't see it 
as that important these days. I mean, think about it... When the Dark Lord 
takes over, is he going to care how many OWLs or N.E.W.T.S anyone's got? 
Of course he isn't. It'll be all about the kind of service he received, the level 
of devotion he was shown." 
 
"And you think you'll be able to do something for him?" asked  
Zabini scathingly. "Sixteen years old and noi even fully qualified yet?" 
 
"I've just said, haven't I? Maybe he doesn't care if I' m qualified. Maybe 
the job he wants me to do isn't someth ing that you need to be qualified for," 
said Malfoy quietly. 
 
Crabbe and Goyle were both sitting with their mouths open like 
gargoyles. Pansy was gazing down at Malfoy as though she had never seen 
anything so awe-inspiring. 
 
"I can see Hogwarts," said Malfoy, clearly relishing the effect he had 
created as he pointed out of the blackened window. "We'd better get our 
robes on." 
 
Harry was so busy staring at Malfoy,  he did not notice Goyle reaching up 
for his trunk; as he swung it down, it h it Harry hard on the side of the head. 
He let out an involuntary gasp of pa in, and Malfoy looked up at the luggage 
rack, frowning. 
 
Harry was not afraid of Malfoy, but he  still did not much like the idea of 
being discovered hiding under his Invi sibility Cloak by a group of unfriendly 
Slytherins. Eyes still watering and head  still throbbing, he drew his wand, 
careful not to disarrange the cloak, and waited, breath held. To his relief, 
Malfoy seemed to decide that he had imagined the noise; he pulled on his 
robes like the others, locked his trunk,  and as the train slowed to a jerky 
crawl, fastened a thick new tr aveling cloak round his neck.  
Harry could see the corridors filling up again and hoped that Hermione 
and Ron would take his things out onto the platform for him; he was stuck 
where he was until the compartment had quite emptied. At last, with a final 
lurch, the train came to a complete halt. Goyle threw the door open and 
muscled his way out 
 
into a crowd of second years, punching  them aside; Crabbe and Zabini 
followed. 
 
"You go on," Malfoy told Pansy, w ho was waiting for him with her hand 
held out as though hoping he would hold it. "I just want to check 
something." 
 
Pansy left. Now Harry and Malfoy were  alone in the compartment. People 
were filing past, descending onto the da rk platform. Malfoy moved over to 
the compartment door and let down the b linds, so that people in the corridor 
beyond could not peer in. He then be nt down over his trunk and opened it 
again. 
 
Harry peered down over the edge of the luggage rack, his heart pumping a 
little faster. What had Malfoy wanted to  hide from Pansy? Was he about to 
see the mysterious broken object it was so important to mend? 
 
"Petrificus Totalus!" 
 Without warning, Malfoy pointed hi s wand at Harry, who was instantly 
paralyzed. As though in slow motion, he toppled out of the luggage rack and 
fell, with an agonizing, fl oor-shaking crash, at Malf oy's feet, the Invisibility 
Cloak trapped beneath him, his whole body revealed with his legs still curled 
absurdly into the cramped kneeling position. He couldn't move a muscle; he 
could only gaze up at Malf oy, who smiled broadly. 
 
"I thought so," he said jubilantly. "I heard Goyle's trunk hit you. And I 
thought I saw something white flash through the air after Zabini came 
back..." 
 
His eyes lingered for a mo ment upon Harry's trainers. 
 
"You didn't hear anything I care a bout, Potter. But while I've got you 
here..." 
 
And he stamped, hard, on Harry's face. Harry felt his nose break; blood 
spurted everywhere. 
 
"That's from my father. Now, let's see..." 
 
Malfoy dragged the cloak out from under Harry's immobilized body and 
threw it over him. 
 
"I don't reckon they'll find you till the trains back in London," he said 
quietly. "See you around, Potter... or not." 
 And taking care to tread on Harry's fingers, Malfoy left the compartment. 
CHAPTER 8
Harry could not move a muscle. He lay there beneath the Invisibility 
Cloak feeling the blood from his nose flow, hot and wet, over his face, 
listening to the voices and footsteps in the corridor beyond. His immediate 
thought was that someone would, surely  check the compartments before the 
train departed again. But at once came the dispiriting realization that even if 
somebody looked into the compartment, he  would be neither seen nor heard. 
His best hope was that somebody else would walk in and step on him.  
Harry had never hate d Malfoy more than as he lay there, like an absurd 
turtle on its back, blood dripping sicken ingly into his open mouth. What a 
stupid situation to have landed himsel f in... and now the last few footsteps 
were dying away; everyone was shuffling along the dark platform outside; he could hear the scraping of trunks and loud babble of talk. 
Ron and Hermione would think that he  had left the train without them. 
Once they arrived at Hogwarts and to ok their places in the Great Hall, 
looked up and down the Gryffindor table a few times, and finally realized 
that he was not there, he, no doubt, would be halfway back to London. 
He tried to make a sound, even a gr unt, but it was impossible. Then he 
remembered that some wizards, lik e Dumbledore, could perform spells 
without speaking, so he tried to summ on his wand, which had fallen out of 
his hand, by saying the words "Accio  Wand!" over and over again in his 
head, but nothing happened. 
He thought he could hear the rustling of  the trees that surrounded the lake, 
and the far-off hoot of an owl, but no hint of a search being made or even 
(he despised himself slightly for ho ping it) panicked voices wondering 
where Harry Potter had gone. A feeling of hopelessness spread through him 
as he imagined the convoy of thestral-drawn carriages trundling up to the school and the muffled yells of laught er issuing from whichever carriage 
Malfoy was riding in, where he could be recounting his attack on Harry to 
Crabbe, Goyle, Zabini, and Pansy Parkinson. 
The train lurched, causing Harry to roll over onto his side. Now he was 
staring at the dusty underside of the s eats instead of the ceiling. The floor 
began to vibrate as the engine roared into life. The Express was leaving and 
nobody knew he was still on it... 
Then he felt his Invisibility Cloak fly off him and a voice overhead said, 
"Wotcher, Harry." 
There was a flash of red light and Harry's body unfroze; he was able to 
push himself into a more dignified sitting position, hastily wipe the blood off 
his bruised race with the back of his ha nd, and raise his head to look up at 
Tonks, who was holding the Invisibiliiy Cloak she had just pulled away. 
 We'd better get out of here, quic kly," she said, as the train windows 
became obscured with steam and they began to move out of the station. 
"Come on, we'll jump." 
Harry hurried after her into the corridor. She pulled open the train door 
and leapt onto the platform, which seemed  to be sliding underneath them as 
the train gathered momentum. He followed her, staggered a little on landing, 
then straightened up in time to see the gleaming scarlet steam engine pick up speed, round the corner, and disappear from view. 
The cold night air was soothing on his throbbing nose. Tonks was looking 
at him; he felt angry and embarrassed th at he had been discovered in such a 
ridiculous position. Silently she handed him back the Invisibility Cloak.  
“Who did it?" 
“Draco Malfoy,” said Harry bitte rly. "Thanks for... well..."  “No problem,” said Tonks, without smiling. From what Harry could see 
in the darkness, she was as mousy-ha ired and miserable-lookinng as she had 
been when he had met her at the Burro w. "I can fix your nose if you stand 
still." 
Harry did not think much of this id ea; he had been intending to visit 
Madam Pomfrey, the matron, in whom he had a little more confidence when 
it came to Healing Spells, but it seemed rude to say this, so he stayed stock-
still and closed his eyes,  
“Episkey" said Tonks. 
Harry’s nose felt very hot, and then very cold. He raised a hand and felt 
gingerly. It seemed  to be mended.  
“Thanks a lot!" 
“You'd better put that cloak back on, and we can walk up to the school," 
said Tonks, still unsmiling. As Harry sw ung the cloak back over himself, she 
waved her wand; an immense silvery four-legged creature erupted from it 
and streaked off into the darkness. 
''Was that a Patronus?" asked Harry, who had seen Dumbledore send 
messages like this. 
"Yes, I'm sending word to the castle that I've got you or they'll worry. 
Come on, we'd better not dawdle." 
They set off toward the lane that led to the school. 
"How did you find me?" 
"I noticed you hadn't left the trai n and I knew you had that cloak. I 
thought you might be hiding for some reason. When I saw the blinds were 
drawn down on that compartment I thought I’d check." 
"But what are you doing here, anyway?" Harry asked.  "I'm stationed in Hogsmeade now, to give the school extra protection," 
said Tonks. 
"Is it just you who's stationed up here, or — ?"  
"No, Proudfoot, Savage, and Dawlish are here too."  
"Dawlish, that Auror Dumbledo re attacked last year?"  
"That's right." 
They trudged up the dark, deserted  lane, following the freshly made 
carriage tracks. Harry looked sideways at Tonks under his cloak. Last year 
she had been inquisitive (to the point of being a little annoying at times), she 
had laughed easily, she had made joke s. Now she seemed older and much 
more serious and purposeful . Was this all the effect of what had happened at 
the Ministry? He reflected uncomfortably that Hermione would have suggested he say something consoling about Sirius to her, that it hadn't been 
her fault at all, but he couldn't br ing himself to do it. He was far from 
blaming her for Sirius's death; it was no more her fault th an anyone else’s 
(and much less than his), but he did not like talking about Sirius if he could 
avoid it. And so they tramped on throu gh the cold night in silence, Tonks's 
long cloak whispering on the ground behind them. 
Having always traveled there by ca rriage, Harry had never before 
appreciated just how far Hogwarts wa s from Hogsmeade Station. With great 
relief he finally saw the tall pillars on either side of the gates, each topped 
with a winged boar. He was cold, he was hungry and he was quite keen to 
leave this new, gloomy Tonks behind. But when he put out a hand to push open the gates, he found them chained shut. 
“Alohomora!" he said confidently, poi nting his wand at the padlock, but 
nothing happened. “That won't work on these," said Tonks. "Dumbledor e bewitched them 
himself." 
Harry looked around, I could climb a wall," he suggested. 
“No, you couldn't," said Tonks flatly. "Anti-intruder jinxes on all of them. 
Security's been tightened a hundredfold this summer."  
“Well then,” said Harry, starting to feel annoyed at her lack of 
helpfulness, “I suppose I'll just have to sleep out here and wait for morning.” 
“Someone's coming down for you," said Tonks, "Look."  
A lantern was bobbing at the distant foot of the castle. Harry was so 
pleased to see it he felt he could even endure Filch's wheezy criticisms of his 
tardiness and rants about how his ti mekeeping would improve with the 
regular application of thumbscrews. It was not until the glowing yellow light 
was ten feet away from them, and had pulled off his Invi sibility Cloak so 
that he could be seen, th at he recognized, with a ru sh of pure loathing, the 
uplit hooked nose and long, black, greasy hair of Severus Snape. 
"Well, well, well," sneered Snape, taking out his wand and tapping the 
padlock once, so that the chains sn aked backward and the gates creaked 
open. "Nice of you to tu rn up, Potter, although yo u have evidently decided 
that the wearing of school robes would detract from your appearance." 
"I couldn't change, I didn't have my —" Harry began, but Snape cut across 
him. 
"There is no need to wait, Nym phadora, Potter is quite — ah  
— safe in my hands." 
"I meant Hagrid to get the me ssage," said Tonks, frowning. 
"Hagrid was late for the start-of-term fe ast, just like Potter here, so I took 
it instead. And incidentally," said Snape, standing back to allow Harry to 
pass him, "I was interested to see your new Patronus." He shut the gates in her face with a loud clang and tapped the chains with 
his wand again, so that they slith ered, clinking, back into place. 
"I think you were better off with the old one," said Snape, the malice in 
his voice unmistakable. "The new one looks weak." 
As Snape swung the lantern about, Harry  saw, fleetingly, a look of shock 
and anger on Tonks's face . Then she was covered in darkness once more. 
"Good night," Harry called to her over his shoulder, as he began the walk 
up to the school with Snape. "Thanks for ... everything," 
"See you, Harry." 
Snape did not speak for a minute or so. Harry felt as though his body was 
generating waves of hatred so powerful that it seemed incredible that Snape 
could not feel them burning him. He  had loathed Snape from their first 
encounter, but Snape had placed himsel f forever and irrevocably beyond the 
possibility of Harry's forgiveness by hi s attitude toward Sirius. Whatever 
Dumbledore said, Harry had had time to think over the summer, and had 
concluded that Snape's snide remarks to Sirius about remaining safely 
hidden while the rest of the Order of the Phoenix were off fighting 
Voldemort had probably been a powerful factor in Sirius rushing off to the 
Ministry the night that he had died. Harry clung to this notion, because it 
enabled him to blame Snape, which felt satisfying, and also  because he knew 
that if anyone was not sorry that Sirius was dead, it was the man now 
striding next to him in the darkness.  
“Fifty points from Gryffindor for latene ss, I think," said Snape. “And, let 
me see, another twenty for your Mugg le attire. You kno w, I don’t believe 
any House has ever been in negative figures this early in the term: We 
haven't even started pudding. You might have set a record, Potter." The fury and hatred bubbling inside Harry seemed to blaze white-hot, but 
he would rather have been  immobilized all the way 
back to London than tell Snape why he was late. 
“I suppose you wanted to make an entrance, did you?" Snape continued. 
"And with no flying car available you decided that bursting into the Great 
Hall halfway through the feast ought to create a dramatic effect." 
Still Harry remained silent, though he thought his chest might explode. He 
knew that Snape had come to fetch him for this, for the few minutes when he 
could needle and torment Harry without anyone else listening. 
They reached the castle steps at last and as the great oaken front doors 
swung open into the vast flagged entrance  hall, a burst of talk and laughter 
and of tinkling plates and glasses greeted them through the doors standing 
open into the Great Hail. Harry w ondered whether he could slip his 
Invisibility Cloak back on, thereby ga ining his seat at the long Gryffindor 
table (which, inconveniently, was th e farthest from the entrance hall) 
without being noticed. As though he ha d read Harry's mind, however, Snape 
said, "No cloak. You can walk in so that everyone sees you, which is what 
you wanted, I'm sure." 
Harry turned on the spot and marc hed straight through the open doors: 
anything to get away from Snape. The Great Hall with its four long House 
tables and its staff table set at the t op of the room was decorated as usual 
with floating candles that made the plat es below glitter and glow. It was all a 
shimmering blur to Harry, however, who walked so fast that he was passing 
the Hufflepuff table before people really  started to stare, and by the time 
they were standing up to get a good lo ok at him, he had spotted Ron and 
Hermione, sped along the benches towa rd them, and forced his way in 
between them. "Where've you — blimey, what've you done to your face?" said Ron, 
goggling at him along with everyone else in the vicinity.     I 
"Why, what's wrong with it?" said Ha rry, grabbing a spoon and squinting 
at his distorted reflection. 
"You're covered in blood!" said  Hermione. "Come here —" 
She raised her wand, said "Tergeo! " and siphoned off the dried blood. 
"Thanks," said Harry, feeling his now clean face. "How's my nose 
looking? 
“Normal," said Hermoi ne anxiously. "Why shouldn't it? Harry, what 
happened? We've been terrified!" 
“I'll tell you later," said Harry curtly. He was very conscious that Ginny, 
Neville, Dean, and Seamus were liste ning in; even Nearly Headless Nick, 
the Gryffindor ghost, had come fl oating along the bench to eavesdrop. 
“But —" said Hermione. 
“Not now, Hermione," said  Harry, in a darkly significant voice. He hoped 
very much that they would all assume he had been involved in something 
heroic, preferably involving a couple of Death Eaters and a dementor. Of 
course, Malfoy would spread the story as  wide as he could, but there was 
always a chance it wouldn't re ach too many Gryffindor ears. 
He reached across Ron for a couple of  chicken legs and a handful of 
chips, but before he coul d take them they vanished , to be replaced with 
puddings. 
“You missed the Sorting, anyway," sa id Hermione, as Ron dived for a 
large chocolate gateau.  
“Hat say anything interesting?" asked Harry, taking a piece of treacle tart. 
“More of the same, really . . . advising us all to unite in  the face enemies, 
you know."  “Dumbledore mentioned Voldemort at all?"  
“Not yet, but he always saves his proper speech for after the the feast 
doesn't he? It can't be long now."  
“Snape said Hagrid was late for the feast —"  
“You've seen Snape? How come?" said Ron between frenzied mouthfuls 
of gateau. 
"Bumped into him," said Harry evasively. 
"Hagrid was only a few minutes late,"  said Hermione. "Look, he's waving 
at you, Harry." 
Harry looked up at the staff table and grinned at Hagrid, who was indeed 
waving at him. Hagrid had never quite managed to comport himself with the 
dignity of Professor McGonagall, Head  of Gryffindor House, the top of 
whose head came up to somewhere betw een Hagrid's elbow and shoulder as 
they were sitting side by side, and who was looking di sapprovingly at this 
enthusiastic greeting. Harry was surp rised to see the Divination teacher, 
Professor Trelawney, sitting on Hagrid's ot her side; she rarely left her tower 
room, and he had never seen  her at the start-of-term feast before. She looked 
as odd as ever, glittering with beads a nd trailing shawls, her eyes magnified 
to enormous size by her spectacles. Havi ng always considered her a bit of a 
fraud, Harry had been shocked to discove r at the end of the previous term 
that it had been she who had made  the prediction that caused Lord 
Voldemort to kill Harry's parents and attack Harry himself. The knowledge 
made him even less eager to find himself in her company, thankfully, this 
year he would be dropping Divination. Her great beaconlike eyes swiveled 
in his direction; he hastily looked aw ay toward the Slytherin table. Draco 
Malfoy was miming the shatterering of  a nose to raucous laughter and applause. Harry dropped his gaze to his treacle tart, his insides burning 
again. What he would give to fight Malfoy one-on-one... 
"So what did Professor Slughorn  want?" Hermione asked. 
"To know what really happened at  the Ministry." said Harry. 
"Him and everyone else here," sniffed Hermione. "People were 
interrogating us about it on the train, weren't they, Ron?" 
 "Yeah," said Ron. "All wanting to know if you really are 'the Chosen 
One' —" 
"There has been much talk on that very subject even amongst the ghosts," 
interrupted Nearly Headless Nick, in clining his barely connected head 
toward Harry so that it wobbled dangero usly on its ruff. "I am considered 
something of a Potter authority; it is widely known that we are friendly. I 
have assured the spirit community that I will not pester you for information, 
however. 'Harry Potter knows that he can confide in me with complete 
confidence,' I told them. 'I would rath er die than betray his trust.'"  
“That's not saying much, seeing as you're already dead," Ron observed. 
“Once again, you show all the sensitivity of a blunt axe," said Nearly 
Headless Nick in affronted tones, and he  rose into the air and glided back 
toward the far end of the Gryffindor table just as Dumbledore got to his feet at the staff table. The talk and la ughter echoing around the Hall died away 
almost instantly. 
"The very best of evenings to you!" he said, smiling broadly, his arms 
opened wide as though to embrace the whole room.  
“What happened to his ha nd?" gasped Hermione. 
She was not the only one who had noticed. Dumbledore's right hand was 
as blackened and dead-looking as it ha d been on the night he had come to 
fetch Harry from the Dursleys. Whispers it the room; Dumbledore, interpreting them correctly, merely  smiled and shook his purple-and-gold 
sleeve over his injury.  
“Nothing to worry about," he said ai rily. "Now ... to our new students, 
welcome, to our old stude nts, welcome back! Another year full of magical 
education awaits you …"  
"His hand was like that when  I saw him over the summer," 
Harry whispered to Hermione. "I thought he'd have cured it by now, 
though ... or Madam Pom frey would've done." 
"It looks as if it's died," said Hermi one, with a nauseated expression. "But 
there are some injuries you can't cure ... old curses…and there are poisons 
without antidotes. . . ." 
"…and Mr. Filch, our caretaker, has asked me to say that there is a 
blanket ban on any joke items bought at the shop called Weasleys' Wizard 
Wheezes. 
"Those wishing to play for their House Quidditch teams should give their 
names to their Heads of House as us ual. We are also looking for new 
Quidditch commentators, who should do likewise. 
"We are pleased to welcome a new me mber of staff this year, Professor 
Slughorn"— Slughorn stood up, his bald  head gleaming in the candlelight, 
his big waistcoated belly casting the table into shadow — "is a former 
colleague of mine who has agreed to re sume his old post of Potions master." 
"Potions?" 
"Potions?" 
The word echoed all over the Hall as people wondered wheel they had 
heard right. 
"Potions?" said Ron and Hermione t ogether, turning to stare Harry. "But 
you said —" "Professor Snape, meanwhile ," said Dumbledore, raising voice so that it 
carried over all the muttering, "will be taking the position of Defense 
Against the Dark Arts teacher." 
"No!" said Harry, so loudly that many heads turned in his direction. He 
did not care; he was staring up at the staff table, incensed. How could Snape 
be given the Defense Against the Dark Ar ts job after all this time? Hadn't it 
been widely known for years that Dumb ledore did not trust him to do it?  
“But Harry, you said that Slughorn was going to be teaching Defense 
Against the Dark Arts!" said Hermione.  
"I thought he was!" said Harry, racking his brains to remember when 
Dumbledore had told him this, but now that he came to think of it, he was 
unable to recall Dumbledore ever telling him what Slughorn would be 
teaching. 
Snape, who was sitting on Dumbledor e's right, did not stand up his 
mention of his name; he me rely raised a hand in l azy acknowledgment of the 
applause from the Slytherin table, yet Harry was sure he could detect a look 
of triumph on the features he loathed so much. 
“Well, there's one good thing," he said  savagely. "Snape 'll be gone by the 
end of the year."  
“What do you mean?" asked Ron. 
“That job's jinxed. No ones lasted more than a year… Quirrell actually 
died doing it… Personally, I'm going to  keep my fingers crossed for another 
death…" 
“Harry!" said Hermione, s hocked and reproachful.  
“He might just go back to teaching Po tions at the end of the year," said 
Ron reasonably. "That Slughorn bloke might not want to stay long-term. 
Moody didn't." “Dumbledore cleared his throat. Harry , Ron, and Hermi one were not the 
only ones who had been talking; the whole Hall had erupted in a buzz of 
conversation at the news that Snape ha d finally achieved his heart’s desire. 
Seemingly oblivious to the sensationa l nature of the news he had just 
imparted, Dumbledore said nothing mo re about staff appointments, but 
waited a few seconds to ensure that  the silence was absolute before 
continuing. 
"Now, as everybody in this Hall knows, Lord Voldemort and his 
followers are once more at la rge and gaining in strength." 
The silence seemed to tauten and strain as Dumbledore spoke. Harry 
glanced at Malfoy. Malfoy was not looking at Dumbledore, but making his 
fork hover in midair with his wand, as though he found the headmaster's 
words unworthy of his attention. 
"I cannot emphasize strongly enough ho w dangerous the present situation 
is, and how much care each of us at Ho gwarts must take to ensure that we 
remain safe. The castle’s magical for tifications have been strengthened over 
the summer, we are protected in new and more powerful ways, but we must 
still guard scrupulously against carelessn ess on the part of any student or 
member of staff. I urge you, therefore, to abide by any security restrictions 
that you teachers might impose upon you, however irksome you might find them — in particular, the rule that you are not to be out of after hours. I 
implore you, should you notice anything strange or suspicious within or 
outside the castle, to report it to a member of staff i mmediately. I trust you to 
conduct yourselves, always, with the utmo st regard for your own and others' 
safety." 
Dumbledore's blue eyes swept over th e students before he smiled once 
more. "But now, your beds await, as wa rm and comfortable as you could 
possibly wish, and I know that your top pr iority is to be well-rested for your 
lessons tomorrow. Let us therefore say good night. Pip pip!" 
With the usual deafening scraping noi se, the benches moved back and the 
hundreds of students began to file out  of the Great Hall toward their 
dormitories. Harry, who was in no hurry at all to leave with the gawping 
crowd, nor to get near enough to Malfoy to allow him to retell the story of 
the nose-stamping, lagged behind, pretending to retie the lace on his trainer, 
allowing most of Gryffindors to draw ahead of him. Hermione had darted 
ahead to fulfill her prefect's duty of shepherding the first years, but Ron 
remained with Harry. 
“What really happened to your nose?" he asked, once they were at the 
very back of the throng pressing out of the Hall, and out of earshot of anyone else. 
Harry told him. It was a mark of th e strength of their friendship that Ron 
did not laugh. 
“I saw Malfoy miming something to do with a nose," he said darkly. 
“Yeah, well, never mind that," said Harry  bitterly. "Listen to what he was 
saying before he found out I was there…"  
“Harry had expected Ron to be st unned by Malfoys boasts. With what 
Harry considered pure pigheadedne ss, however, Ron was unimpressed. 
“Come on, Harry, he was just showing off for Parkinson…. 
What kind of mission would You-Know-Who have given him?" 
“How d'you know Voldemort doesn't need someone at Hogwarts? It 
wouldn't be the first —" 
“I wish yeh'd stop sayin' tha name , Harry," said a reproachful voice 
behind them. Harry looked over his should er to see Hagtid shaking his head. "Dumbledore uses that name," said Harry stubbornly 
“Yeah, well, tha's Dumbledore, inn it?" said Hagrid mysteriously. 
“So how come yeh were la te, Harry? I was worried." 
"Got held up on the train," said  Harry. "Why were you late?" 
"I was with Grawp," said Hagrid happ ily. "Los' track o' the time. He's got 
a new home up in the mountains now, Du mbledore fixed it — nice big cave. 
He's much happier than he was in the forest. We were havin' a good chat." 
"Really?" said Harry, taking care not to catch Ron's eye; the last time he 
had met Hagrid's half-brother, a vicious  giant with a talent for ripping up 
trees by the roots, his vocabulary had comprised five words, two of which he 
was unable to pronounce properly. 
"Oh yeah, he's really come on," said  Hagrid proudly. "Yeh'll be amazed. 
I'm thinkin' o' trainin' him up as me assistant." 
Ron snorted loudly, but managed to pa ss it off as a violent sneeze. They 
were now standing beside  the oak front doors. 
"Anyway, I'll see yeh tomorrow, firs' lesson's straight after lunch. Come 
early an' yeh can say hello ter Buck — I mean, Witherwings!” 
Raising an arm in cheery farewell, he  headed out of the doors into the 
darkness. 
Harry and Ron looked at each othe r. Harry could tell that Ron was 
experiencing the same sinking feeling as himself. 
"You're not taking Care of Magical Creatures, are you?" 
Ron shook his head. "And you're not either, are you?" 
Harry shook his head too. 
"And Hermione," said Ron, "she's not, is she?" Harry shook his head again. Exactly what Hagrid would say when he 
realized his three favorite students had given up his subject, he did not like 
to think. 
CHAPTER 9  
Harry and Ron met Hermione in the common room before breakfast next 
morning. Hoping for some support in his theory, Harry lost no time in telling 
Hermione what he had overheard Malf oy saying on the Hogwarts Express. 
 
"But he was obviously show ing off for Parkinson, wa sn't he?" interjected 
Ron quickly, before Hermi one could say anything. 
 
"Well," she said uncertainly, "I don't know.  It would be like Malfoy to 
make himself seem more important than he  is ... but that's a big lie to tell…" 
 
"Exactly," said Harry, but he could nor press the point, because so many 
people were trying to listen in to his conversation, not to mention staring at 
him and whispering behind their hands. 
 
"It's rude to point," Ron snapped at a particularly minuscule first-year boy 
as they joined the queue to climb out of the portrait hole. The boy, who had 
been muttering something about Harry  behind his hand to his friend, 
promptly turned scarlet and toppled out of the hole in alar m. Ron sniggered. 
"I love being a sixth year. And were going to be getting free time this year. 
Whole periods when we can ju st sit up here and relax." 
 
"We're going to need that time for stud ying, Ron!" said Hermione, as they 
set off down the corridor. 
 
"Yeah, but not today," said Ron. "T oday's going to be a real loss, I 
reckon."  
"Hold it!" said Hermione, throwing out an arm and halting a passing 
fourth year, who was attempting to pus h past her with a lime-green disk 
clutched tightly in his hand. "Fanged Frisbees banned, hand it over," she told 
him sternly. The scowling boy hande d over the snarling Frisbee, ducked 
under her arm, and took off after his friends. Ron waited for him to vanish, 
then tugged the Frisbee from Hermione's grip. 
 
"Excellent, I've always wanted one of these." 
 
Hermione's remonstration was dr owned by a loud giggle; Lavender 
Brown had apparently found Ron's remark  highly amusing. She continued to 
laugh as she passed them, glancing ba ck at Ron over he r shoulder. Ron 
looked rather pleased with himself. 
 
The ceiling of the Great Hall was sere nely blue and streaked with frail, 
wispy clouds, just like the squares of sky visible through the high mullioned 
windows. While they tucked into porridge and eggs and bacon, Harry and 
Ron told Hermione about their embara ssing conversation with Hagrid the 
previous evening. 
 
"But he can't really think we'd con tinue Care of Magical Creatures!" she 
said, looking distressed. "I mean, wh en has any of us expressed . . . you 
know . . . any enthusiasm?" 
 
"That's it, though, innit? " said Ron, swallowing an entire fried egg whole. 
"We were the ones who made the most effort in classes because we like Hagrid. But he thinks we liked the stupid subject. D'ya reckon anyone's 
going to go on to N.E.W.T.?" 
 
Neither Harry nor Hermione answer ed; there was no need. They knew 
perfectly well that nobody in their year  would want to continue Care of 
Magical Creatures. They avoided Hagrid 's eye and returned his cheery wave 
only half-heartedly when he left th e staff table ten minutes later. 
 
After they had eaten, they remained  in their places, awaiting Professor 
McGonagall's descent from the staff table. The distribution of class 
schedules was more complicated than  usual this year, for Professor 
McGonagall needed first to confir m that everybody had achieved the 
necessary O.W.L. grades to continue with their chosen N.E.W.T.s. 
 
Hermione was immediately cleared to  continue with Charms, Defense 
Against the Dark Arts, Transfiguration, Herbology, Arithmancy, Ancient 
Runes, and Potions, and shot off to  a first period Ancient Runes class 
without further ado. Nev ille took a little longer to sort out; his round face 
was anxious as Professor McGonagall l ooked down his application and then 
consulted his O.W.L results. 
 
"Herbology, fine," she said. "Professor Sprout will be delighted to see you 
back with an 'Outstanding' O.W.L. And you qualify for Defense Against the 
Dark Arts with 'Exceeds Expectations.'  But the problem is Transfiguration. 
I'm sorry, Longbottom, but an 'Accepta ble' really isn't good enough to 
continue to N.E.W.T. level. Just don't th ink you'd be able to cope with the 
coursework."  
Neville hung his head. Professor McG onagall peered at him through her 
square spectacles. 
 
"Why do you want to continue with Transfiguration, anyway? I've never 
had the impression that you particularly enjoyed it." 
 
Neville looked miserable and muttere d something about "my grandmother 
wants." 
 
"Hmph," snorted Professot McGonagall.  "It's high time your grandmother 
learned to be proud of the grandson she's got, rather than the one she thinks 
she ought to have - particularly afte r what happened at the Ministry." 
 
Neville turned very pink and bli nked confusedly; Pro fessor McGonagall 
had never paid him a compliment before. 
 
"I'm sorry, Longbottom, but I cannot let you into my N.E.W.T. class. I see 
that you have an 'Exceeds  Expectations' in Charm however - why not try for 
a N.E.W.T. in Charms?" 
 
"My grandmother thinks Charms is  a soft option," mumbled Neville. 
 
"Take Charms," said Professor McG onagall, "and I shall drop Augusta a 
line reminding her that just becaus e she failed her Charms O.W.L., the 
subject is not necessarily worthle ss." Smiling slightly at the look of 
delighted incredulity on Neville's f ace, Professor McGona gall tapped a blank schedule with the tip of her wand and handed it, now carrying details of his 
new classes, to Neville. 
 
Professor McGonagall turned next to Parvati Patil, whose first question 
was whether Firenze, the handsome cen taur, was still teaching Divination. 
 
"He and Professor Trelawney are divi ding classes between them this 
year," said Professor McGonagall, a hint  of disapproval in her voice; it was 
common knowledge that she despised the subject of Divination. "The sixth 
year is being taken by Professor Trelawney." 
 
Parvati set off for Divination five  minutes later looking slightly 
crestfallen. 
 
"So, Potter, Potter . . ." said Profe ssor McGonagall, c onsulting her notes 
as she turned to Harry. "Charms, De fense Against the Dark Arts, Herbology, 
Transfiguration ... all fine. I must  say, I was pleased with your 
Transfiguration mark, Potter, very pl eased. Now, why haven't you applied to 
continue with Potions? I thought it wa s your ambition to become an Auror?" 
 
"It was, but you told me I had to get an 'Outstanding' in my O.W.L., 
Professor." 
 
"And so you did when Professor Sn ape was teaching the subject. 
Professor Slughorn, however, is perfectly happy to accept N.E.W.T. students 
with 'Exceeds Expectations' at O.W. L. Do you wish to proceed with 
Potions?"  
"Yes," said Harry, "but I didn't buy the books or any ingredients or 
anything-" 
 
"I'm sure Professor Slughorn will be  able to lend you some," said 
Professor McGonagall. "Very well, Potter, here is your schedule. Oh, by the 
way- twenty hopefuls have already put  down their names for the Gryffindor 
Quidditch team. I shall pass the list to  you in due course and you can fix up 
trials at your leisure." 
 
A few minutes later, Ron was cleared to do the same subjects as Harry, 
and the two of them left the table together. 
 
"Look," said Ron delightedly, gazing ar  his schedule, "we've got a free 
period now. . . and a free period after break . . . and after lunch . . . 
excellent." 
 
They returned to the common room, which was empty apart from a half 
dozen seventh years, including Katie Bell,  the only remaining member of the 
original Gryffindor Quidditch team that  Harry had joined in his first year. 
 
"I thought you'd get that, well done,"  she called over, pointing at the 
Captains badge on Harry's chest. "Tell me when you call trials!" 
 
"Don't be stupid," said Harry, "you don't need to try out, I watched you 
play for five years. . . ." 
 "You mustn't start off like that," she said warningly. "For all you know, 
there's someone much better than me  out there. Good teams have been 
ruined before now because Captains just  kept playing the old faces, or letting 
in their friends...." 
 
Ron looked a little uncomfortable a nd began playing with the Fanged 
Frisbee Hermione had taken from the f ourth-year student. It zoomed around 
the common room, snarling and attempti ng to take bites of the tapestry. 
Crookshanks's yellow eyes followed it and he  hissed when it came too close. 
 
An hour later they reluctantly le ft the sunlit common room for the 
Defense Against the Dark Arts classr oom four floors be low. Hermione was 
already queuing outside, carrying an ar mful of heavy books and looking put-
upon. 
 
"We got so much homework for Runes, " she said anxiously when Harry 
and Ron joined her. "A fifteen-inch essa y, two translations, and I've got to 
read these by Wednesday!" 
 
"Shame," yawned Ron. 
 
"You wait," she said resentfully. "I bet Snape gives us loads." 
 
The classroom door opened as she s poke, and Snape stepped into the 
corridor, his sallow face framed as ever by two curtains of greasy black hair. 
Silence fell over the queue immediately. 
 "Inside," he said. 
 
Harry looked around as they entered.  Snape had imposed his personality 
upon the room already; it was gloomier than usual, as curtains had been 
drawn over the windows, and was lit by candlelight. New pictures adorned 
the walls, many of them showing people who appeared to be in pain, 
sporting grisly injuries or strangely  contorted body part s. Nobody spoke as 
they settled down, looking around at the shadowy, gruesome pictures. 
 
"I have not asked you to take out your books," said Snape, closing the 
door and moving to face the class from behind his desk; He rmione hastily 
dropped her copy of Confro nting the Faceless back into her bag and stowed 
it under her chair. "I wish to speak to you, and I want your fullest attention." 
 
His black eyes roved over their uptur ned faces, lingering for a fraction of 
a second longer on Harry's than anyone else's. 
 
"You have had five teac hers in this subject so far, I believe." 
 
You believe . . . like you haven't watched them a ll come and go, hoping 
you'd be next, thought Harry scathingly. 
 
“Naturally, these teachers will all have had their own methods and 
priorities. Given this c onfusion I am surprised so  many of you scraped an 
O.W.L. in this subject. I shall be even more surprised if all of you manage to 
keep up with the N.E.W .T. work, which will be more advanced." 
 Snape set off around the edge of th e room, speaking now in a lower voice; 
the class craned their neck s to keep him in view. “The Dark Arts," said 
Snape, "are many, varied, ever-changing,  and eternal. Fighting them is like 
fighting a many-headed monster, which, ea ch time a neck is severed, sprouts 
a head even fiercer and cl everer than before. You are fighting that which is 
unfixed, mutating, indestructible." 
 
Harry stared at Snape. It was surely one  thing to respect th e Dark Arts as a 
dangerous enemy, another to speak of  them, as Snape was doing, with a 
loving caress in his voice? 
 
"Your defenses," said Snape, a little l ouder, "must therefore be as flexible 
and inventive as the arts you seek to undo. These pictures” - he indicated a 
few of them as he swept past - "give a fair representation of what happens to 
those who suffer, for instance, the Cr uciatus Curse" - he waved a hand 
toward a witch who was clearly shriek ing in agony - "feel the Dementor's 
Kiss" - a wizard lying huddled and bla nk-eyed, slumped against a wall - "or 
provoke the aggression of the In ferius" - a bloody mass upon ground. 
 
"Has an Inferius been seen, then?"  said Parvati Patil in a high pitched 
voice. "Is it definite, is he using them?" 
 
"The Dark Lord has used Inferi in the past," said Sn ape, "which means 
you would be well-advised to assume he  might use them ag ain. Now. . . " 
 He set off again around the other side of the classroom toward his desk, 
and again, they watched him as he wa lked, his dark robes billowing behind 
him. , 
 
". . . you are, I believe, complete novices in the use of nonverbal spells. 
What is the advantage of a nonverbal spell?" 
 
Hermione's hand shot into the air. Sn ape took his time looking around at 
everybody else, making sure he had no c hoice, before saying curtly, "Very 
well - Miss Granger?" 
 
"Your adversary has no warning about wh at kind of magic you're about to 
perform," said Hermione, "which gives you a split-second advantage." 
 
"An answer copied almost word fo r word from The Standard Book of 
Spells, Grade Six," said Snape dismi ssively (over in the corner, Malfoy 
sniggered), "but correct in essentia ls. Yes, those who progress in using 
magic without shouting incantations gain  an element of surprise in their 
spell-casting. Not all wizards can do this, of course; it is a question of 
concentration and mind power which so me" - his gaze lingered maliciously 
upon Harry once more - "lack." 
 
Harry knew Snape was thinking of their disastrous Occlum ency lessons of 
the previous year. He refused to drop his gaze, but glowered at Snape until 
Snape looked away. 
 "You will now divide," Snape went on,  "into pairs. One partner will 
attempt to jinx the other without speak ing. The other will attempt to repel 
the jinx in equal silence. Carry on." 
 
Although Snape did not know it, Harry had taught at least half the class 
(everyone who had been a member of the D.A.) how to perform a Shield 
Charm the previous year. None of them had ever cast the charm without 
speaking, however. A reasonable amount  of cheating ensued; many people 
were merely whispering the incantation in stead of saying it aloud. Typically, 
ten minutes into the lesson Hermione managed to repel Neville's muttered 
Jelly-Legs Jinx without uttering a single word, a feat that would surely have 
earned her twenty points for Gryffind or from any reasonable teacher, 
thought Harry bitterly, but which Snap e ignored. He swept between them as 
they practiced, looking just as much lik e an overgrown bat as ever, lingering 
to watch Harry and Ron struggling with the task. 
 
Ron, who was supposed to be jinxing Harry, was purple in the face, his 
lips tightly compressed to save hims elf from the temptation of muttering the 
incantation. Harry had his wand raised, waiting on tenterhooks to repel a 
jinx that seemed unlikely ever to come. 
 
"Pathetic, Weasley," said Snape, afte r a while. "Here -- let me show you-" 
 
He turned his wand on Harry so fast that Harry reacted instinctively; all 
thought of nonverbal spells for gotten, he yelled, "Protego!" 
 His Shield Charm was so strong Snape was knocked off-balance and hit a 
desk. The whole class had looked ar ound and now watched as Snape righted 
himself, scowling. 
 
"Do you remember me telling you we are practicing nonverbal spells, 
Potter?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry stiffly. 
 
"Yes, sir." 
 
"There's no need to call me 'sir,'  Professor." The words had escaped him 
before he knew what he was sayi ng. Several people gasped, including 
Hermione. Behind Snape, however, Ron, Dean, and Seamus grinned 
appreciatively. 
 
"Detention, Saturday night, my office, " said Snape. "I do not take cheek 
from anyone, Potter . . . not even 'the Chosen One.'" 
 
"That was brilliant, Harry!"  chortled Ron, once they were safely on their 
way to break a short while later. 
 
"You really shouldn't have said it, " said Hermione, frowning at Ron. 
"What made you?" 
 
"He tried to jinx me, in case you didn't notice!" fumed Harry. I had 
enough of that during those Occlumency lessons! Why doesn't he use another guinea pig for a change? What 's Dumbledore playing at, anyway, 
letting him teach Defense? Did you hear him talking about the Dark Arts? 
He loves them! All that unfixed, indestructble stuff –“ 
 
"Well," said Hermione, "I t hought he sounded a bit like you." 
 
"Like me?" 
 
"Yes, when you were telling us what it's  like to face Voldemort. You said 
it wasn't just memorizing a bunch of sp ells, you said it was just you and your 
brains and your guts - well, wasn't th at what Snape was saying? That it 
really comes down to being brave and quick-thinking?" 
 
Harry was so disarmed that she ha d thought his words as well worth 
memorizing as The Standard Book of Spells that he did not argue. 
 
"Harry! Hey, Harry!" 
 
Harry looked around; Jack Sloper, one of the Beaters on last year's 
Gryffindor Quidditch team, was hu rrying toward him holding a roll of 
parchment. 
 
"For you," panted Sloper. "Listen,  I heard you're the new Captain. 
When're you holding trials?" 
 
"I'm not sure yet," said Harry, thi nking privately that Sloper would be 
very lucky to get back on the team. "I'll let you know."  
"Oh, right. I was hoping it'd be this weekend -" 
 
"But Harry was not listening; he had just recognized the thin, slanting 
writing on the parchment. Leaving Sloper in mid-sentence, he hurried away 
with Ron and Hermione, unrolli ng the parchment as he went. 
 
Dear Harry, 
I would like to start our private le ssons this Saturday. Kindly come along 
to my office at 8 P.M. I hope you are enjoying your first day back at 
school. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
Albus Dumbledore 
P.S. I enjoy Acid Pops. 
 
"He enjoys Acid Pops?" said Ron, who had read the message over Harry's 
shoulder and was looking perplexed. 
 
"It's the password to get past the gar goyle outside his study," said Harry in 
a low voice. "Ha! Snape's not going to be pleased. . . . I won't be able to do 
his detention!" 
 
He, Ron, and Hermione spent the whole of break speculating on what 
Dumbledore would teach Harry. Ron thought  it most likely to be spectacular 
jinxes and hexes of the type the Deat h Eaters would not know. Hermione 
said such things were illegal, and thought it much more likely that 
Dumbledore wanted to teach Harry adva nced Defensive magic. After break, 
she went off to Arithmancy while Harry and Ron returned to the common room where they grudgingly started Snap e's homework. This  turned out to 
be so complex that they still had not finished when Hermione joined them 
for their after-lunch free period (thou gh she considerably speeded up the 
process). They had only just finished  when the bell rang for the afternoon's 
double Potions and they beat the familiar path down to the dungeon 
classroom that had, for so long, been Snape's. 
 
When they arrived in the corridor they  saw that there were only a dozen 
people progressing to N.E.W.T. level. Crabbe and Goyle had evidently failed to achieve the required O.W.L. grad e, but four Slytherins had made it 
through, including Malfoy. Four Ravenclaws were there, and one 
Hufflepuff, Ernie Macmillan, whom Harr y liked despite his rather pompous 
manner. 
 
"Harry," Ernie said portentously , holding out his hand as Harry 
approached, "didn't get a chance to sp eak in Defense Against The Dark Arts 
this morning. Good lesson, I thought, but Shield Charms are old hat, of 
course, for us old D.A. lags . . . And how are you, Ron -- Hermione?" 
 
Before they could say more than "fine," the dungeon door opened and 
Slughorn's belly preceded him out of th e door. As they filed into the room, 
his great walrus mustache curved above  his beaming mouth, and he greeted 
Harry and Zabini with particular enthusiasm. 
 
The dungeon was, most unusually, alr eady full of vapors and odd smells. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione  sniffed interestedly as they passed large, 
bubbling cauldrons. The four Slytherins took a table together, as did the four Ravenclaws. This left Harry, Ron, and Hermione to share a table with Ernie. 
They chose the one nearest a gold-col ored cauldron that was emitting one of 
the most seductive scents Harry had ev er inhaled: Somehow it reminded him 
simultaneously of treacle tart, the w oody smell of a broom stick handle, and 
something flowery he thought he mi ght have smelled at the Burrow. He 
found that he was breathing very slow ly and deeply and that the potion's 
fumes seemed to be filling him up like drink. A great contentment stole over 
him; he grinned across at Ron, who grinned back lazily. 
 
"Now then, now then, now then," sa id Slughorn, whose massive outline 
was quivering through the many shimmering vapors. "Scales out, everyone, 
and potion kits, and don't forget your copies 
of Advanced Potion-Making. . . ." 
 
"Sir?" said Harry, raising his hand. 
 
"Harry, m'boy?" 
 
"I haven't got a book or scales or anything - nor's Ron - we didn't realize 
we'd be able to do the N.E.W.T., you see -" 
 
"Ah, yes, Professor McGonagall did mention . . . not  to worry, my dear 
boy, not to worry at all. You can us e ingredients from the store cupboard 
today, and I'm sure we  can lend you some scales, and we've got a small 
stock of old books here, they'll do until you can write to Flourish and Blotts. 
. . ." 
 Slughorn strode over to a corner cupboa rd and, after a moment's foraging, 
emerged with two very battered-lookin g copies of Advanced Potion-Making 
by Libatius Borage, which he gave to Ha rry and Ron along with two sets of 
tarnished scales. 
 
"Now then," said Slughorn, returning to the front of the class and inflating 
his already bulging chest so that the bu ttons on his waistcoat threatened to 
burst off, "I've prepared a few potions fo r you to have a look at, just out of 
interest, you know. These ar e the kind of thing you ough t to be able to make 
after completing your N.E.W.T.s. You ough t to have heard of 'em, even if 
you haven't made 'em ye t. Anyone tell me what this one is?" 
 
He indicated the cauldron nearest the Sl ytherin table. Harry raised himself 
slighty in his seat and saw what looke d like plain water boiling away inside 
it. 
 
Hermione's well-practiced hand hit the air before anybody else's; 
Slughorn pointed at her. 
 
"It's Veritaserum, a colorless, odorle ss potion thar forces the drinker to 
tell the truth," said Hermione. 
 
"Very good, very good!" said Slughor n happily. "Now," he continued, 
pointing at the cauldron near est the Ravenclaw table, "t his one here is pretty 
well known… Featured in a few Ministry leaflets lately too… Who can - ?" 
 
Hermione's hand was fastest once more.  
"lt's Polyjuice Potion, sir," she said. 
 
Harry too had recognized the slow-b ubbling, mudlike substance the 
second cauldron, but did not resent  Hermione getting the credit for 
answering the question; she, after a ll, was the one who had succeeded in 
making it, back in their second year. "Excellent, excellent! Now, this one 
here . . . yes, my dear?" said Slughorn, now looking slightly bemused, as 
Hermione's hand punched the air again. 
 
"It's Amortentia!" 
 
"It is indeed. Ir seems almost foolis h to ask," said Slughorn, who was 
looking mightily impressed, "but I assume you know what it does?" 
 
“It's the most powerful love porion in the world!" said Hermione. 
 
“Quite right! You recognized it, I suppose, by its distinctive mother-of-
pearl sheen?" 
 
"And the steam rising in character istic spirals," said Hermione 
enthusiastically, "and it's supposed to smell different ly to each of according 
to what attracts us, and I can smell freshly mown grass and new parchment 
and -" 
 
But she turned slightly pink and did not complete the sentence. 
 'May I ask your name, my dear?" sa id Slughorn, ignoring Hermione's 
embarrassment. 
 
“Hermione Granger, sir." 
 
"Granger? Granger? Can you possibly be related to Hector Dagworth-
Granger, who founded the Most Extr aordinary Society of Potioneers?" 
 
"No. I don't think so, sir. I'm Muggle-born, you see." 
 
Harry saw Malfoy lean close to Nott a nd whisper something; both of them 
sniggered, but Slughorn showed no dism ay; on the contrary, he beamed and 
looked from Hermione to Harry, who was sitting next to her. 
 
"Oho! ‘One of my best friends is Muggle-born, and she's the best in our 
year!' I'm assuming this is the very  friend of whom you spoke, Harry?" 
 
"Yes, sir," said Harry. 
 
"Well, well, take twenty well-ea rned points for Gryffindor, Miss 
Granger," said Slughorn genially. 
 
Malfoy looked rather as he had done the time Hermione had punched him 
in the face. Hermione turned to Harry with a radiant expression and 
whispered, "Did you really tell him I' m the best in the year? Oh, Harry!" 
 "Well, what's so impressive about that?" whispered Ron, who for some 
reason looked annoyed. "You are the best in  the year - I'd've told him so if 
he'd asked me!" 
 
Hermione smiled but made a "shhing" ge sture, so that they could hear 
what Slughorn was saying. Ron looked slightly disgruntled. 
 
"Amortentia doesn't really create love , of course. It is impossible to 
manufacture or imitate love. No, this will simply cause a powerful 
infatuation or obsession. It is proba bly the most dange rous and powerful 
potion in this room - oh yes," he said, nodding gravely at Malfoy and Nott, 
both of whom were smirking skeptically . "When you have seen as much of 
life as I have, you will not underestim ate the power of obsessive love.” 
 
"And now," said Slughorn, "it is time for us to start work." 
 
"Sir, you haven't told us what's in  this one," said Ernie Macmillan, 
pointing at a small black cauldron st anding on Slughorn's desk. The potion 
within was splashing about merrily; it was the color of molten gold, and 
large drops were leaping like goldf ish above the surface, though not a 
particle had spilled. 
 
"Oho," said Slughorn again. Harry was sure that Slughorn had not 
forgotten the potion at all, but had wait ed to be asked for dramatic effect. 
"Yes. That. Well, that one, ladies and gentlemen, is a most curious little 
potion called Felix Felicis. I take it, " he turned, smiling, to look at Hermione, who had let out an audibl e gasp, "that you know what Felix 
Felicis does, Miss Granger?" 
 
"It's liquid luck," said Hermione  excitedly. "It makes you lucky!" 
 
The whole class seemed to sit up a little straighter. Now all Harry could 
see of Malfoy was the back of his sleek  blond head, because he was at last 
giving Slughorn his full and undivided attention. 
 
"Quite right, take another ten points for Gryffindor. Yes, it's a funny little 
potion, Felix Felicis," said Slughorn. "Desperate ly tricky to make, and 
disastrous to get wrong. However, if brewed correc tly, as this has been, you 
will find that all your endeavors tend to succeed ... at least until the effects 
wear off." 
 
"Why don't people drink it all the time, sir?" said Terry Boot eagerly. 
 
"Because if taken in excess, it cau ses giddiness, recklessness, and 
dangerous overconfidence," said Slughor n. "Too much of a good thing, you 
know. . . highly toxic in large quantitie s. But taken sparingly, and very 
occasionally . . ." 
 
"Have you ever taken it, sir?" asked Mi chael Corner with great interest. 
 
"Twice in my life," said Slughorn. "Once when I was twenty-four, once 
when I was fifty-seven. Two tables poonfuls taken with breakfast. Two 
perfect days."  
He gazed dreamily into the distance. Whether he was playacting or not, 
thought Harry, the effect was good. 
 
"And that," said Slughorn, apparently  coming back to earth, "is what I 
shall be offering as a prize in this lesson." 
 
There was silence in which every bubble and gurgle of the surrounding 
potions seemed magnified tenfold. 
 
"One tiny bottle of Felix Felicis," sa id Slughorn, taking a minuscule glass 
bottle with a cork in it out of his pocket and showing it to them all. "Enough 
for twelve hours' luck. From dawn till du sk, you will be lucky in everything 
you attempt." 
 
"Now, I must give you warning that Fe lix Felicis is a banned substance in 
organized competitions . . . sporting ev ents, for instance, examinations, or 
elections. So the winner is to use it on an ordinary day onl y . . . and watch 
how that ordinary day becomes extraordinary!" 
 
"So," said Slughorn, suddenly brisk, "how are you to win this fabulous 
prize? Well, by turning to page ten of  Advanced Potion Making. We have a 
little over an hour left to us, which shou ld be time for you to make a decent 
attempt at the Draught of Living Death.  I know it is more complex than 
anything you have attempte d before, and I do not e xpect a perfect potion 
from anybody. The person who does be st, however, will win little Felix 
here. Off you go!"  
There was a scraping as everyone drew  their cauldrons toward them and 
some loud clunks as peopl e began adding weights to  their scales, but nobody 
spoke. The concentration within the r oom was almost tangible. Harry saw 
Malfoy riffling feverishly through his copy of Advanced Potion-Making., It 
could not have been cleare r that Malfoy really wanted that lucky day. Harry 
bent swiftly over the tattered book Slughorn had lent him. 
 
To his annoyance he saw that the previous owner had scribbled all over 
the pages, so that the margins were as  black as the printe d portions. Bending 
low to decipher the ingredients (even here, the previous owner had made 
annotations and crossed things out) Harry hurried off toward the store 
cupboard to find what he needed. As he dashed back to his cauldron, he saw 
Malfoy cutting up Valerian roots as fast as he could. 
 
Everyone kept glancing around at what  the rest of the class was doing; 
this was both an advantage and a disadva ntage of Potions, that it was hard to 
keep your work private. Within ten minutes, the whole place was full of 
bluish steam. Hermione, of course, seem ed to have progressed furthest. Her 
potion already resembled the "smoot h, black currant-colored liquid" 
mentioned as the ideal halfway stage. 
 
Having finished chopping his roots, Ha rry bent low over his book again. It 
was really very irritating, having to try and decipher the directions under all the stupid scribbles of the previous owner, who for some  reason had taken 
issue with the order to cut up the sopophorous bean and had written in the alternative instruction:  
Crush with flat side of silver dagger, 
releases juice better than cutting. 
 
"Sir, I think you knew my grandfat her, Abraxas Malfoy?" Harry looked 
up; Slughorn was just passing the Slytherin table. 
 
"Yes," said Slughorn, without looking at  Malfoy, "I was sorry to hear he 
had died, although of course it wasn 't unexpected, dragon pox at his age…" 
 
And he walked away. Harry bent b ack over his cauldron, smirking. He 
could tell that Malfoy had expected to be treated like Harry or Zabini; 
perhaps even hoped for some preferen tial treatment of the type he had 
learned to expect from Snape. It looke d as though Malfoy would have to rely 
on nothing but talent to win the bottle of Felix Felicis. 
 
The sopophorous bean was proving very difficult to cut up. Harry turned 
to Hermione. 
 
"Can I borrow your silver knife?" 
 
She nodded impatiently, not taking her ey es off her potion, which was still 
deep purple, though according to the book  ought to be turning a light shade 
of lilac by now. 
 Harry crushed his bean with the fl at side of the dagger. To his 
astonishment, it immediately exuded so much juice he was amazed the 
shriveled bean could have held it all. 
 
Hastily scooping it all into the cauldr on he saw, to his surprise, that the 
potion immediately turned exactly the shade of lilac described by the textbook. 
 
His annoyance with the previous owner vanishing on the spot, Harry now 
squinted at the next line of instructi ons. According the book, he had to stir 
counterclockwise until the potion turned clear as water. According to the 
addition the previous owner made, howev er, he ought to add a clockwise stir 
after every seventh counterclockwise stir. Could the old owner be right 
twice? 
 
Harry stirred counterclockwise, he ld his breath, and stirred once 
clockwise. The effect was immediat e. The potion turned pale pink. 
 
"How are you doing that?" demanded Hermione, who was redfaced and 
whose hair was growing bushier and bus hier in the fumes from her cauldron; 
her potion was still resolutely purple. 
 
"Add a clockwise stir -" 
 
"No, no, the book says counterclockwise!" she snapped. 
 Harry shrugged and continued wh at he was doing. Seven stirs 
counterdockwise, one clockwise, pause . . . seven stirs counterclockwise, 
one stir clockwise . . . 
 
Across the table, Ron was cursing fl uently under his breath; his potion 
looked like liquid licorice. Harry glanced around. As far as he could see, no one else's potion had turned as pale as his. He felt elated, something that had 
certainly never happened be fore in this dungeon. 
 
"And time's . . . up!" called Slu ghorn. "Stop stirring, please!" 
 
Slughorn moved slowly among the tables, peering into cauldrons. He 
made no comment, but occasionally gave the potions a stir or a sniff. At last 
he reached the table where Harry, Ron,  Hermione, and Ernie were sitting. 
He smiled ruefully at the tarlike subs tance in Ron's cauldron. He passed over 
Ernie's navy concoction. Hermione's pot ion he gave an approving nod. Then 
he saw Harry's, and a look of incredulous delight spread over his face. 
 
"The clear winner!" he cried to the dungeon. "Excellent, excellent, Harry! 
Good lord, it's clear you've inherited yo ur mother's talent. She was a dab 
hand at Potions, Lily was! Here you ar e, then, here you are - one bottle of 
Felix Felicis, as promised, and use it well!" 
 
Harry slipped the tiny bottle of golden liquid into his inner pocket, feeling 
an odd combination of delight at the furious looks on the Slytherins' faces 
and guilt at the disappointed expression on Hermione's. Ron looked simply 
dumbfounded.  
"How did you do that?" he whispered to Harry as they left the dungeon. 
 
"Got lucky, I suppose," said Harry,  because Malfoy was within earshot. 
 
Once they were securely ensconced at  the Gryffindor table for dinner, 
however, he felt safe e nough to tell them. Hermione's face became stonier 
with every word he uttered. 
 
"I s'pose you think I cheated?" he finished, aggravated by her expression. 
 
"Well, it wasn't exactly your own work, was it?" she said stiffly. 
 
"He only followed different instructions  to ours," said Ron, "Could've 
been a catastrophe, couldn't it? But he took  a risk and it paid off." He heaved 
a sigh. "Slughorn could've handed me  that book, but no, I get the one no 
one's ever written on. Puked on, by th e look of page fifty-two, but-" 
 
"Hang on," said a voice close by Harry's left ear and he caught a sudden 
waft of that flowery smell he had picked up in Slughorn's dungeon. He 
looked around and saw that Ginny had joined them. "Did I hear right? 
You've been taking orders from something someone wrote in a book, 
Harry?" 
 
She looked alarmed and angry. Ha rry knew what was on her mind at 
once. 
 "It's nothing," he said reassuringly, lowering his voice. "It's not like, you 
know, Riddle's diary. It's just an old textbook someone's scribbled on." 
 
"But you're doing what it says?" 
 
"I just tried a few of the tips written in the margins, honestly, Ginny, 
there's nothing funny -" 
 
"Ginny's got a point," said Hermione, perking up at once. "We ought to 
check that there's nothing odd about it.  I mean, all these funny instructions, 
who knows?" 
 
"Hey!" said Harry indignantly, as  she pulled his copy of Advanced 
Potion-Making out of his bag and raised  her wand. "Specialis Revelio!" she 
said, rapping it smartly on the front cover. Nothing whatsoever happened. 
The book simply lay there, looking old and dirty and dog-eared. 
 
"Finished?" said Harry irritably. "Or d'you want to wait and see if it does 
a few backflips?" 
 
"It seems all right," said  Hermione, still staring at the book suspiciously. 
"I mean, it really does seem  to be ... just a textbook." 
 
"Good. Then I'll have it back," said Ha rry, snatching it off the table, but it 
slipped from his hand and landed open on the floor. Nobody else was 
looking. Harry bent low to retrieve the book, and as he did so, he saw 
something scribbled along the bottom of the back cover in the same small, cramped handwriting as the instructions that had won him his bottle of Felix 
Felicis, now safely hidden inside a pa ir of socks in his trunk upstairs. 
 
This book is the property of the Half Blood Prince. 
CHAPTER 10 
For or the rest of the week's Potions  lessons Harry continued to follow the 
Half-Blood Prince's instructions wherever they deviated from Libatius 
Borage's, with the result that by thei r fourth lesson Slughorn was raving 
about Harrys abilities, saying that he ha d rarely taught a nyone so talented. 
Neither Ron nor Hermione was de lighted by this. Although Harry had 
offered to share his book with both of them, Ron had more difficulty 
deciphering the handwriting than Harry did, and could not keep asking 
Harry to read aloud or it might look suspicious. Hermione, meanwhile, was 
resolutely plowing on with what she called the "official" instructions, but 
becoming increasingly bad-tempered as they yielded poorer results than the 
Prince's. 
 
Harry wondered vaguely who the Ha lf-Blood Prince had been. Although 
the amount of homework they had b een given prevented him from reading 
the whole of his copy of Advanced Potion-Making, he had skimmed through 
it sufficiently to see that there was ba rely a page on which the Prince had not 
made additional notes, not  all of them concerned with potion-making. Here 
and there were directions for what l ooked like spells that the Prince had 
made up himself. 
 
"Or herself," said Hermione irritabl y, overhearing Harry pointing some of 
these out to Ron in the common room on Saturday evening. "It might have 
been a girl. I think the handwriting looks more like a girl's than a boy's." 
 
"The Half-Blood Prince, he was called," Harry said. "How many girls 
have been Princes?"  
Hermione seemed to have no answer  to this. She merely scowled and 
twitched her essay on The Principles of Remateria lization away from Ron, 
who was trying to read it upside down. 
 
Harry looked at his watch and hurri edly put the old copy of Advanced 
Potion-Making back into his bag. 
 
"It's five to eight, I'd better go,  I'll be late for Dumbledore." 
 
"Ooooh!" gasped Hermione, looking up at once. "Good luck! We'll wait 
up, we want to hear what he teaches you!" 
 
"Hope it goes okay," said Ron, and the pair of them watched Harry leave 
through the portrait hole. 
 
Harry proceeded through deserted corri dors, though he had to step hastily 
behind a statue when Professor Trelawney appeared around a corner, 
muttering to herself as she shuffled a pack of dirty-looking playing cards, 
reading them as she walked. 
 
"Two of spades: conflict," she murm ured, as she passed the place where 
Harry crouched, hidden. "Seven of sp ades: an ill omen. Ten of spades: 
violence. Knave of spades: a dark yo ung man, possibly troubled, one who 
dislikes the questioner —" 
 
She stopped dead, right on the other side of Harry's statue.  
"Well, that can't be right," she said, annoyed, and Harry heard her 
reshuffling vigorously as she set off again, leaving nothing but a whiff of 
cooking sherry behind her.  Harry waited until he wa s quite sure she had 
gone, then hurried off again until he r eached the spot in the seventh-floor 
corridor where a single gargoyle stood against the wall. 
 
"Acid Pops," said Harry, and the gargoyle leapt aside; the wall behind it 
slid apart, and a moving spiral stone staircase was revealed, onto which 
Harry stepped, so that he was carried  in smooth circles up to the door with 
the brass knocker that led to Dumbledore's Office. 
 
Harry knocked. 
 
"Come in," said Dumbledore s voice. 
 
"Good evening, sir," said Harry, walk ing into the headmaster's office. 
 
"Ah, good evening, Harry. Sit down," said Dumbledore, smiling. "I hope 
you've had an enjoyable first week back at school?" "Yes, thanks, sir," said Harry. 
 
"You must have been busy, a deten tion under your belt already!" "Er," 
began Harry awkwardly, but Dumb ledore did not look too stern. 
 
"I have arranged with Professor Snape that you will do your detention 
next Saturday instead."  
"Right," said Harry, who had more  pressing matters on his mind than 
Snapes detention, and now looked around surreptitiously for some indication 
of what Dumbledore was planning to do w ith him this evening. The circular 
office looked just as it always did; the delicate silver instruments stood on 
spindle-legged tables, puff-ing smoke a nd whirring; portraits of previous 
headmasters and headmistresses dozed in their frames, and Dumbledore's 
magnificent phoenix, Fawkes, stood on his perch behind the door, watching 
Harry with bright interest. It did not even look as though Dumbledore had 
cleared a space for dueling practice. 
 
"So, Harry," said Dumbledore, in a businesslike voice. "You have been 
wondering, I am sure, what I have pl anned for you during these — for want 
of a better word — lessons?" 
 
"Yes, sir." 
 
"Well, I have decided that it is ti me, now that you know what prompted 
Lord Voldemort to try and kill you fift een years ago, for you to be given 
certain information." There was a pause. 
 
"You said, at the end of last term, you were going to tell me everything," 
said Harry. It was hard to keep a note of accusation from his voice. "Sir," he 
added. 
 
"And so I did," said Dumbledore placidl y. "I told you everything I know. 
From this point forth, we shall be l eaving the firm foundation of fact and journeying together through the murky marshes of memory into thickets of 
wildest guesswork. From here on in, Harry, I may be as woefully wrong as 
Humphrey Belcher, who believed the time was ripe  for a cheese cauldron." 
 
"But you think you're right?" said Harry. 
 
"Naturally I do, but as I have alrea dy proven to you, I make mistakes like 
the next man. In fact, being — forgive me — rather cleverer  than most men, 
my mistakes tend to be  correspondingly huger." 
 
"Sir," said Harry tentatively, "doe s what you're going to tell me have 
anything to do with the prophecy? W ill it help me . . . survive?" 
 
"It has a very great deal to do with the prophecy," said Dumbledore, as 
casually as if Harry had asked him about the next days weather, "and I 
certainly hope that it will help you to survive." 
 
Dumbledore got to his feet and walk ed around the desk, past Harry, who 
turned eagerly in his seat to watch Dumbledore bending over the cabinet 
beside the door. When Dumbledore straightened up, he was holding a 
familiar shallow stone basin etched with odd markings around its rim. He placed the Pensieve on the desk in front of Harry. 
 
"You look worried." 
 
Harry had indeed been eyeing the Pens ieve with some apprehension. His 
previous experiences with the odd device that stored and revealed thoughts and memories, though highly instructiv e, had also been uncomfortable. The 
last time he had disturbe d its contents, he had s een much more than he 
would have wished. But Dumbledore was smiling. 
 
"This time, you enter the Pensieve with me . . . and, even more unusually, 
with permission." 
 
"Where are we going, sir?" 
 
"For a trip down Bob Ogden's memory lane," said Dumbledore, pulling 
from his pocket a crystal bottle containing a swirling silvery-white 
substance. 
 
"Who was Bob Ogden?" 
 
"He was employed by the Department  of Magical Law Enforcement," 
said Dumbledore. "He died some time ago, but not before I had tracked him 
down and persuaded him to confide these recollections to me. We are about 
to accompany him on a visit he made in the course of his duties. If you will 
stand, Harry ..." 
 
But Dumbledore was having difficulty pulling out the stopper of the 
crystal bottle: His injured hand seemed stiff and painful. 
 
"Shall —shall I, sir?" 
 
"No matter, Harry —"  
Dumbledore pointed his wand at the bottle and the cork flew out. 
 
"Sir — how did you injure your hand?" Harry asked again, looking at the 
blackened fingers with a mixture of revulsion and pity. 
 
"Now is not the moment for that st ory, Harry. Not yet. We have an 
appointment with Bob Ogden." 
 
 Dumbledore tipped the silvery conten ts of the bottle into the Pensieve, 
where they swirled and sh immered, neither liquid nor  gas. "After you," said 
Dumbledore, gesturing toward the bowl.  Harry bent forward, took a deep 
breath, and plunged his face into the silv ery substance. He felt his feet leave 
the office floor; he was falling, falli ng through whirling darkness and then, 
quite sud-denly, he was blinking in dazzling sunlight. Before his eyes had 
adjusted, Dumbledore landed beside him. 
 
They were standing in a country  lane bordered by high, tangled 
hedgerows, beneath a summer sky as br ight and blue as a forget-me-not. 
Some ten feet in front of them  stood a short, plump man wearing 
enormously thick glasses that reduced his eyes to molelike specks. He was 
reading a wooden signpost that was sticking out of the brambles on the left-hand side of the road. Harry knew this  must be Ogden; he was the only 
person in sight, and he was also wearing the strange assortment of clothes so 
often chosen by inexperienced wizards trying to look like Muggles: in this 
case, a frock coat and spats over a st riped one-piece bathing costume. Before Harry had time to do more than register his bizarre appearance, however, 
Ogden had set off at a br isk walk down the lane. 
 
Dumbledore and Harry followed. As they passed the wooden sign, Harry 
looked up at its two arms. The one poi nting back the way they had come 
read: Great Hangleton, 5 miles. The arm pointing after Ogden said Little 
Hangleton, 1 mile. 
 
They walked a short way with nothing to see but the hedgerows, the wide 
blue sky overhead and the swishing, frock-coated figur e ahead. Then the 
lane curved to the left and fell away, sloping steeply down a hillside, so that they had a sudden, unexpected view of  a whole valley laid out in front of 
them. Harry could see a village, undoubt edly Little Hangleton, nestled 
between two steep hills, its church and graveyard clearly visible. Across the 
valley, set on the opposite hillside, was a handsome manor  house surrounded 
by a wide expanse of velvety green lawn. 
 
Ogden had broken into a reluctant trot due to the steep downward slope. 
Dumbledore lengthened his stride, and Ha rry hurried to keep up. He thought 
Little Hangleton must be their final de stination and wonde red, as he had 
done on the night they had found Slug horn, why they had to approach it 
from such a distance. He soon discovered that he was mistaken in thinking 
that they were going to the village, however. The lane curved to the right 
and when they rounded the corner, it wa s to see the very edge of Ogden's 
frock coat vanishing through a gap in the hedge. 
 Dumbledore and Harry followed him ont o a narrow dirt track bordered by 
higher and wilder hedgerows than those they had left behind. The path was 
crooked, rocky, and potholed, sloping down-hill like the last one, and it 
seemed to be heading for a patch of  dark trees a little below them. Sure 
enough, the track soon opened up at the copse, and Dumbledore and Harry 
came to a halt behind Ogden, w ho had stopped and drawn his wand. 
 
Despite the cloudless sky, the old trees ahead cast deep, dark, cool 
shadows, and it was a few seconds be fore Harry's eyes discerned the 
building half-hidden amongst the tangle of  trunks. It seemed to him a very 
strange location to choose for a house, or  else an odd decision to leave the 
trees growing nearby, blocking all light and the view of the valley below. He 
wondered whether it was inhabited; its walls were mossy and so many tiles 
had fallen off the roof that the rafters were visible in places. Nettles grew all 
around it, their tips reaching the windows,  which were tiny and thick with 
grime. Just as he had concluded that nobody could possibly live there, 
however, one of the windows was thrown  open with a clatter, and a thin 
trickle of steam or smoke issued from it, as though somebody was cooking. 
 
Ogden moved forward quietly and, it seemed to Harry, rather cautiously. 
As the dark shadows of the trees slid over him, he stopped again, staring at 
the front door, to which some body had nailed a dead snake. 
 
Then there was a rustle and a crack, and a man in rags dropped from the 
nearest tree, landing on his feet right in  front of Ogden, who leapt backward 
so fast he stood on the tails of  his frock coat and stumbled. 
 "You're not welcome." 
 
The man standing before th em had thick hair so ma tted with dirt it could 
have been any color. Seve ral of his teeth were missi ng. His eyes were small 
and dark and stared in opposite direc tions. He might have  looked comical, 
but he did not; the effect was frighten -ing, and Harry coul d not blame Ogden 
for backing away several more paces before he spoke. 
 
"Er — good morning. I'm from the Ministry of Magic —" "You're not 
welcome." 
 
"Er — I'm sorry — I don't understa nd you," said Ogden nervously. 
 
Harry thought Ogden was being extr emely dim; the stranger was making 
himself very clear in Harry's opinion, particularly as he was brandishing a 
wand in one hand and a short and rather bloody knife in the other. 
 
"You understand him, I'm sure, Harry ?" said Dumbledore quietly. "Yes, 
of course," said Harry, slightly  nonplussed. "Why can't Ogden — ?" 
 
But as his eyes found the dead snak e on the door again, he suddenly 
understood. 
 
"He's speaking Parseltongue?" 
 
"Very good," said Dumbledore, nodding and smiling. 
 The man in rags was now advancing on Ogden, knife in one hand, wand 
in the other. 
 
"Now, look —" Ogden began, but too late: There was a bang, and Ogden 
was on the ground, clutching his nose, while a nasty yellowish goo squirted 
from between his fingers. 
 
"Morfin!" said a loud voice. 
 
An elderly man had come hurrying out  of the cottage, banging the door 
behind him so that the dead snake sw ung pathetically. This man was shorter 
than the first, and oddly proportioned; his shoulders were very broad and his 
arms overlong, which, with his bright  brown eyes, short scrubby hair, and 
wrinkled face, gave him the look of a powerful, aged monkey. He came to a 
halt beside the man with the knife, wh o was now cackling with laughter at 
the sight of Ogden on the ground. 
 
"Ministry, is it?" said the older man, looking down at Ogden. "Correct!" 
said Ogden angrily, dabbing his face. "And you, I take it, are Mr. Gaunt?" 
 
"S'right," said Gaunt. "Got you in the face, did he?" "Yes, he did!" 
snapped Ogden. 
 
"Should've made your presence know n, shouldn't you?" said Gaunt 
aggressively. "This is private property. Can 't just walk in here and not expect 
my son to defend himself." 
 "Defend himself against what, man?" said Ogden, clambering back to his 
feet. 
 
"Busybodies. Intruders. Muggles and filth." Ogden pointed his wand at 
his own nose, which was still issuing large amounts of what looked like 
yellow pus, and the flow stopped at on ce. Mr. Gaunt spoke out of the corner 
of his mouth to Morfin. "Get in the house. Don't argue." 
 
This time, ready for it, Harry recognized Parseltongue; even while he 
could understand what was being said , he distinguished the weird hissing 
noise that was all Ogden could hear. Morfin seemed to be on the point of 
disagreeing, but when his father cast him a threatening look he changed his 
mind, lumbering away to the cottage with an odd rolling gait and slamming 
the front door behind him, so th at the snake swung sadly again. 
 
"It's your son I'm here to see, Mr. Gaunt," said Ogden, as he mopped the 
last of the pus from the front of hi s coat. "That was Morfin, wasn't it?" 
 
"Ah, that was Morfin," said the old man indifferently. "Are you pure-
blood?" he asked, suddenly aggressive. 
 
"That's neither here nor there," sa id Ogden coldly, and Harry felt his 
respect for Ogden rise. Apparently  Gaunt felt rather differently. 
 
He squinted into Ogden’s face a nd muttered, in what was clearly 
supposed to be an offensive tone, "Now  I come to think about it, I've seen 
noses like yours down in the village."  
"I don't doubt it, if your son’s been let loose on them," said Ogden. 
"Perhaps we could continue this discussion inside?" 
 
"Inside?" 
 
"Yes, Mr. Gaunt. I've already told you. I'm here about Morfin. We sent an 
owl —" 
 
"I've no use for owls," said Gaunt. "I don't open letters." 
 
"Then you can hardly complain that you  get no warning of visitors," said 
Ogden tartly. "I am here following a serious breach of Wizarding law, which 
occurred here in the early hours of this morning —" 
 
"All right, all right, all right!" be llowed Gaunt. "Come in the bleeding 
house, then, and much good it'll do you!" 
 
The house seemed to contain three ti ny rooms. Two doors led off the main 
room, which served as kitchen and living room com-bined. Morfin was 
sitting in a filthy armchair beside the smoking fire, twisting a live adder 
between his thick fingers and crooni ng softly at it in Parseltongue: 
 
Hissy, hissy, little snakey, 
Slither on the floor 
You be good to Morfin 
Or he'll nail you to the door. 
 There was a scuffling noise in the corner beside the open window, and 
Harry realized that there was some body else in the room, a girl whose 
ragged gray dress was the exact color of  the dirty stone wall behind her. She 
was standing beside a steaming pot on  a grimy black stove, and was fiddling 
around with the shelf of squalid-looking po ts and pans above it. Her hair was 
lank and dull and she had a plain, pale, rather heavy face. Her eyes, like her 
brother's, stared in opposite directi ons. She looked a little cleaner than the 
two men, but Harry thought he had never seen a more defeated-looking 
person. 
 
"M'daughter, Merope," said Gaunt grudgingly, as Ogden looked 
inquiringly toward her. 
 
"Good morning," said Ogden. 
 
She did not answer, but with a frighten ed glance at her father turned her 
back on the room and continued shifting the pots on the shelf behind her. 
 
"Well, Mr. Gaunt," said Ogden, "to get straight to the point, we have 
reason to believe that your son, Morfi n, performed magic in front of a 
Muggle late last night." 
 
There was a deafening clang. Mer ope had dropped one of the pots. 
 
"Pick it up!" Gaunt bellowed at her. "T hat's it, grub on the floor like some 
filthy Muggle, what's your wand fo r, you useless sack of muck?" 
 "Mr. Gaunt, please!" said Ogden in a shocked voice, as Merope, who had 
already picked up the pot, flushed blotchily scarlet, lost her grip on the pot 
again, drew her wand shakily from her pocket, pointed it at the pot, and 
muttered a hasty, inaudible spell that caused the pot to shoot across the floor 
away from her, hit the opposite wall, and crack in two. 
 
Morfin let out a mad cackle of la ughter. Gaunt screamed, "Mend it, you 
pointless lump, mend it!" 
 
Merope stumbled across the room, but before she had time to raise her 
wand, Ogden had lifted hi s own and said firmly, "Reparo. "  The pot mended 
itself instantly. 
 
Gaunt looked for a moment as though he  was going to shout at Ogden, but 
seemed to think better of it: Instead, he jeered at his daughter, "Lucky the 
nice man from the Ministry's here, isn' t it? Perhaps he'll take you off my 
hands, perhaps he doesn't mind dirty Squibs. . . ." 
 
Without looking at anybody or thanking  Ogden, Merope picked up the pot 
and returned it, hands trembling, to its  shelf. She then stood quite still, her 
back against the wall between the filt hy window and the stove, as though she 
wished for nothing more than to sink into the stone and vanish. 
 
"Mr. Gaunt," Ogden began again, "as I've said: the reason for my visit —" 
 
"I heard you the first time!" snapped Gaunt. "And so what? Morfin gave a 
Muggle a bit of what was coming to  him — what about it, then?"  
"Morfin has broken Wizarding law," said Ogden sternly. 
 
"'Morfin has broken Wizarding law.'" Gaunt imitated Ogden’s voice, 
making it pompous and singsong. Morfin cackled again. "He taught a filthy 
Muggle a lesson, that's illegal now, is it?" 
 
"Yes," said Ogden. "I'm afraid it is." 
 
He pulled from an inside pocket a sm all scroll of parchment and unrolled 
it. 
 
"What's that, then, his sentence?" said Gaunt, his voice rising angrily. 
 
"It is a summons to the Ministry for a hearing —" 
 
"Summons! Summons? Who do you think you are, summoning my son 
anywhere?" 
 
"I'm Head of the Magical Law En forcement Squad," said Ogden. 
 
"And you think we're scum, do you? " screamed Gaunt, advancing on 
Ogden now, with a dirty yellow-nailed finger pointing at his chest. "Scum 
who'll come running when the Minist ry tells 'em to? Do you know who 
you're talking to, you filt hy little Mudblood, do you?" 
 "I was under the impression that I was speaking to Mr. Gaunt," said 
Ogden, looking wary, but standing his ground. 
 
"That's right!" roared Gaunt. For a moment, Harry thought Gaunt was 
making an obscene hand gesture, but then realized that he was showing 
Ogden the ugly, black-stoned ring he  was wearing on his middle finger, 
waving it before Ogden's eyes. "See th is? See this? Know what it is? Know 
where it came from? Centuries it's been in  our family, that's how far back we 
go, and pure-blood all the way! Know how much I've been offered for this, with the Peverell coat of ar ms engraved on the stone?" 
 
"I've really no idea," said Ogden, blinking as the ring sailed within an inch 
of his nose, "and it's quite beside the point, Mr. Gaunt. Your son has committed —" 
 
With a howl of rage, Gaunt ran towa rd his daughter. For a split second, 
Harry thought he was going to throttle her as his hand flew to her throat; 
next moment, he was dragging her to ward Ogden by a gold chain around her 
neck. 
 
"See this?" he bellowed at Ogden, shaking a heavy gold locket at him, 
while Merope spluttered and gasped for breath. 
 
"I see it, I see it!" said Ogden hastily. 
 
"Slytherins!" yelled Gaunt. "Salazar Slytherin's! We're his last living 
descendants, what do you say to that, eh?"  
"Mr. Gaunt, your daughter!" said Ogde n in alarm, but Gaunt had already 
released Merope; she staggered away  from him, back to her corner, 
massaging her neck and gulping for air. 
 
"So!" said Gaunt triumphantly, as though he had just proved a 
complicated point beyond all possible dis pute. "Don't you go talking to us as 
if we're dirt on your shoes! Generati ons of purebloods, wizards all — more 
than you can say, I don't doubt!" 
 
And he spat on the floor at Ogdens feet. Morfin cackled again. Merope, 
huddled beside the window, her head bow ed and her face hidden by her lank 
hair, said nothing. 
 
"Mr. Gaunt," said Ogde n doggedly, "I am afra id that neither your 
ancestors nor mine have anything to do  with the matter in hand. I am here 
because of Morfin, Morfin and the Muggl e he accosted late last night. Our 
information" — he glanced down at his scroll of parchment — "is that 
Morfin performed a jinx or hex on the sa id Muggle, causing him to erupt in 
highly painful hives." 
 
Morfin giggled. 
 
"Be quiet, boy," snarled Gaunt in Pa rseltongue, and Morfin fell silent 
again. 
 "And so what if he did, then?" Gaunt said defiantly to Ogden, "I expect 
you've wiped the Muggle's filthy face clean for him, and his memory to 
boot—" 
 
"That's hardly the point, is it, Mr . Gaunt?" said Ogden. "This was an 
unprovoked attack on a defenseless —" 
 
"Ar, I had you marked out as a Muggle-lover the moment I saw you," 
sneered Gaunt, and he spat on the floor again. 
 
"This discussion is getting us nowhere ," said Ogden firmly. "It is clear 
from your son's attitude that he feels no remorse for his actions." He glanced 
down at his scroll of parchment again.  "Morfin will attend a hearing on the 
fourteenth of September to answer the charges of using magic in front of a 
Muggle and causing harm and distress to that same Mugg —" 
 
Ogden broke off. The jingling, cl opping sounds of horses and loud, 
laughing voices were drifting in th rough the open window. Apparently the 
winding lane to the village passed very  close to the copse where the house 
stood. Gaunt froze, listening, his eyes  wide. Morfin hissed and turned his 
face toward the sounds, his expression hungry. Merope raised her head. Her 
face, Harry saw, was starkly white. 
 
"My God, what an eyesore!" rang out a girl's voice, as clearly audible 
through the open window as if she ha d stood in the room beside them. 
"Couldn't your father have th at hovel cleared  away, Tom?" 
 "It's not ours," said a young man's voice. "Everything on the other side of 
the valley belongs to us, but that cotta ge belongs to an old tramp called 
Gaunt, and his children. The son's quite  mad, you should hear some of the 
stories they tell in the village —" 
 
The girl laughed. The jingling, cloppi ng noises were growing louder and 
louder. Morfin made to get out of his armchair.  "Keep your seat," said his 
father warningly, in Parseltongue. 
 
"Tom," said the girl's voice again, now  so close they were clearly right 
beside the house, "I might be wrong — but has somebody nailed a snake to 
that door?" 
 
"Good lord, you're right!" said the man' s voice. "That'll be the son, I told 
you he's not right in the head. D on't look at it, Cecilia, darling.” 
 
The jingling and clopping sounds were now growing faint again. 
 
"'Darling,'" whispered Morfin in Parseltongue, looking at his sister. 
"'Darling, he called her. So he wouldn't have you anyway." 
 
Merope was so white Harry felt sure she was going to faint. 
 
"What's that?" said Gaunt sharply, also in Parseltongue, looking from his 
son to his daughter. "What did you say, Morfin?" 
 "She likes looking at that Muggle," said Morfin, a vicious expression on 
his face as he stared at his sister, who now looked terrified. "Always in the 
garden when he passes, peering through the hedge at him, isn't she? And last 
night — " 
 
Merope shook her head jerkily, imploringly, but Morfin went on 
ruthlessly, "Hanging out of the window waiting for hi m to ride home, wasn't 
she?" 
 
"Hanging out of the window to look at a Muggle?" said Gaunt quietly. 
 
All three of the Gaunts seemed to have forgotten Ogden,  who was looking 
both bewildered and irritated at this renewed outbreak of incomprehensible 
hissing and rasping. 
 
"Is it true?" said Gaunt in a deadly voice, advancing a step or two toward 
the terrified girl. "My daughter—pur e-blooded descendant of Salazar 
Slytherin — hankering after a filthy, dirt-veined Muggle?" 
 
Merope shook her head frantically, pressing herself into the wall, 
apparently unable to speak. 
 
"But I got him, Father!" cackled Morfin. "I got him as he went by and he 
didn't look so pretty with hive s all over him, did he, Merope?" 
 
"You disgusting little Squib,  you filthy little blood tr aitor!" roared Gaunt, 
losing control, and his hands closed around his daughter's throat.  
Both Harry and Ogden yelled "No!" at the same time; Ogden raised his 
wand and cried, "Relaskio!" 
 
Gaunt was thrown backward, away fro m his daughter; he tripped over a 
chair and fell flat on his back. With a roar of rage, Morfin leapt out of his 
chair and ran at Ogden, brandishi ng his bloody knife and firing hexes 
indiscriminately from his wand. 
 
Ogden ran for his life. Dumbledore indi cated that they ought to follow 
and Harry obeyed, Merope's screams echoing in his ears. 
 
Ogden hurtled up the path and erupted onto the main lane, his arms over 
his head, where he collided with the gl ossy chestnut horse ridden by a very 
handsome, dark-haired young man. Both he and the pretty girl riding beside 
him on a gray horse roared with laughter  at the sight of Ogden, who bounced 
off the horse's flank and set off again, his frock coat flying, covered from 
head to foot in dust, running pell-mell up the lane. 
 
"I think that will do, Harry," said Dumbledore. He took Harry by the 
elbow and tugged. Next moment, th ey were both soaring weightlessly 
through darkness, until they landed squarely on their feet, back in 
Dumbledore's now twilit office. 
 
"What happened to the girl in the cottage?" said Harry at once, as 
Dumbledore lit extra lamps with a flick of his wand. "Merope, or whatever 
her name was?"  
"Oh, she survived," said Dumbledore,  reseating himself behind his desk 
and indicating that Harry should sit dow n too. "Ogden Apparated back to the 
Ministry and returned with reinforcem ents within fifteen minutes. Morfin 
and his father attempted to fight, but both were overpowered, removed from 
the cottage, and subsequently convict ed by the Wizengamot. Morfin, who 
already had a record of Muggle attacks, was sentenced to three years in Azkaban. Marvolo, who ha d injured several Ministry employees in addition 
to Ogden, received six months." 
 
"Marvolo?" Harry repeated wonderingly. 
 
"That's right," said Dumbledore, smili ng in approval. "I am glad to see 
you're keeping up." 
 
"That old man was — ?" 
 
"Voldemort's grandfather, yes," sa id Dumbledore. "Marvolo, his son, 
Morfin, and his daughter, Merope, were th e last of the Gaunts, a very ancient 
Wizarding family noted for a vein of instability and violence that flourished 
through the generations due  to their habit of marrying their own cousins. 
Lack of sense coupled with a great liki ng for grandeur meant that the family 
gold was squandered severa l generations before Ma rvolo was born. He, as 
you saw, was left in squalor and poverty, with a very nasty temper, a fantastic amount of arrogance and prid e, and a couple of family heirlooms 
that he treasured just as much as his son, and rather more than his daughter." 
 "So Merope," said Harry, leaning forw ard in his chair and star-ing at 
Dumbledore, "so Merope was . . . Sir, does that mean she was . . . 
Voldemort's mother?" 
 
"It does," said Dumbledore. "And it so happens that we also had a glimpse 
of Voldemort's father. I wonder whether you noticed?" 
 
"The Muggle Morfin attacked ? The man on the horse?" 
 
"Very good indeed," said Dumbledore,  beaming. "Yes, that was Tom 
Riddle senior, the handsome Muggle who used to go riding past the Gaunt 
cottage and for whom Merope Gaunt cherished a secret, burning passion." 
 
"And they ended up married?" Harry said  in disbelief, unable to imagine 
two people less likely to fall in love. 
 
 "I think you are forgetting," said Du mbledore, "that Merope was a witch. 
I do not believe that her magical power s appeared to their best advantage 
when she was being terrorized by her fa ther. Once Marvolo and Morfin were 
safely in Azkaban, once she was alone and free for the first time in her life, 
then, I am sure, she was able to give fu ll rein to her abilitie s and to plot her 
escape from the desperate life sh e had led for eighteen years." 
 
"Can you not think of any measure Me rope could have taken to make 
Tom Riddle forget his Muggle compan ion, and fall in love with her 
instead?" 
 "The Imperius Curse?" Harry suggested. "Or a love potion?" 
 
"Very good. Personally, I am inclined to think that she used a love potion. 
I am sure it would have seemed more romantic to her, and I do not think it 
would have been very difficult, some hot day, when Riddle was riding alone, 
to persuade him to take a drink of wate r. In any case, within a few months of 
the scene we have just witnessed, th e village of Little Hangleton enjoyed a 
tremendous scandal. You can imagine the gossip it caused when the squire's 
son ran off with the tramp's daughter, Merope." 
 
"But the villagers' shock was nothing to Marvolo's. He returned from 
Azkaban, expecting to find his daughter  dutifully awaiting his return with a 
hot meal ready on his table. Instead, he  found a clear inch of dust and her 
note of farewell, explaining what she had done." 
 
"From all that I have been able to discover, he never mentioned her name 
or existence from that time forth. Th e shock of her desertion may have 
contributed to his early death — or pe rhaps he had simply never learned to 
feed himself. Azkaban had greatly weaken ed Marvolo, and he did not live to 
see Morfin return to the cottage." 
 
"And Merope? She ... she died, didn' t she? Wasn't Voldemort brought up 
in an orphanage?" 
 
"Yes, indeed," said Dumbledore. "We must do a certain amount of 
guessing here, although I do not thi nk it is difficult to deduce what 
happened. You see, within a few mont hs of their runaway marriage, Tom Riddle reappeared at the manor house in Little Hangleton without his wife. 
The rumor flew around the neighborhood that he was talking of being 
'hoodwinked' and 'taken in.' What he me ant, I am sure, is that he had been 
under an enchantment that had now lifte d, though I daresay he did not dare 
use those precise words for fear of be ing thought insane. When they heard 
what he was saying, however, the villagers guessed that Me rope had lied to 
Tom Riddle, pretending that she was going to have his baby, and that he had 
married her for this reason." 
 
"But she did have his baby." 
 
"But not until a year after they were  married. Tom Riddle left her while 
she was still pregnant." 
 
"What went wrong?" asked Harry. "Why did the love potion stop 
working?" 
 
"Again, this is guesswork," said Dumb ledore, "but I believe that Merope, 
who was deeply in love with her hus band, could not bear to continue 
enslaving him by magical means. I believe  that she made the choice to stop 
giving him the potion. Perhaps, beso tted as she was, she had convinced 
herself that he would by now have fallen in love wi th her in return. Perhaps 
she thought he would stay for the baby's sake. If so, she was wrong on both 
counts. He left her, never saw her again, and never troubled to discover what became of his son." 
 The sky outside was inky black and the lamps in Dumbledore's office 
seemed to glow more brightly than before. 
 
"I think that will do fo r tonight, Harry," said Du mbledore after a moment 
or two. 
 
"Yes, sir," said Harry. 
 
He got to his feet, but did not leave. 
 
"Sir ... is it important to know all this about Voldemort's past?" 
 
"Very important, I think," said Dumbledore. 
 
"And it... it's got something to  do with the prophecy?" 
 
"It has everything to do with the prophecy." 
 
"Right," said Harry, a little confused, but reassured all the same. 
 
He turned to go, then another ques tion occurred to him, and he turned 
back again. "Sir, am I allowed to tell Ron and Hermione everything you've 
told me?" 
 
Dumbledore considered him for a mome nt, then said, "Yes, I think Mr. 
Weasley and Miss Granger have proved themselves trust-worthy. But Harry, 
I am going to ask you to ask them not to repeat any of this to anybody else. It would not be a good idea if word  got around how much I know, or 
suspect, about Lord Voldemort's secrets." 
 
"No, sir, I'll make sure it's ju st Ron and Hermi one. Good night." 
 
He turned away again, and was almost  at the door when he saw it. Sitting 
on one of the little spindle-legged ta bles that supported so many frail-
looking silver instruments, was an ugly gold ring set with a large, cracked, 
black stone. 
 
"Sir," said Harry, staring at it. "That ring—" 
 
"Yes?" said Dumbledore. 
 
"You were wearing it when we vis ited Professor Slughorn that night." 
 
"So I was," Dumbledore agreed. 
 
"But isn't it... sir, isn't it the same  ring Marvolo Gaunt showed Ogden?" 
 
Dumbledore bowed his head. "The very same." 
 
"But how come — ? Ha ve you always had it?" 
 
"No, I acquired it very recently," said  Dumbledore. "A few days before I 
came to fetch you from your aunt and uncle's, in fact." 
 "That would be around the time you injured your hand, then, sir?" 
 
"Around that time, yes, Harry." 
 
Harry hesitated. Du mbledore was smiling. 
 
"Sir, how exactly — ?" 
 
"Too late, Harry! You shall hear th e story another time. Good night." 
 
"Good night, sir." 
CHAPTER 11
 
As Hermione had predicted, the sixt h years' free periods were not the 
hours of blissful relaxa tion Ron had anticipated, but times in which to 
attempt to keep up with the vast amount  of homework they were being set. 
Not only were they studying as thoug h they had exams every day, but the 
lessons themselves had become more  demanding than ever before. Harry 
barely understood half of what Profe ssor McGonagall said to them these 
days; even Hermione had had to ask her to repeat instructions once or twice. 
Incredibly, and to Hermione's increas ing resentment, Harry's best subject 
had suddenly become Potions, thanks to the Half-Blood Prince. 
 
Nonverbal spells were now expected , not only in Defense Against the 
Dark Arts, but in Charms and Transfi guration too. Harry frequently looked 
over at his classmates in the common room or at mealtimes to see them 
purple in the face and straining as though they had overdosed on U-No-Poo; 
but he knew that they were really st ruggling to make spells work without 
saying incantations aloud. It was a relie f to get outside into the greenhouses; 
they were dealing with more dangerous pl ants than ever in Herbology, but at 
least they were still allowed to swear loudly if the Venomous Tentacula 
seized them unexpectedly from behind. 
 
One result of their enormous worklo ad and the frantic hours of practicing 
nonverbal spells was that Harry, Ron, and Hermione had so far been unable 
to find time to go and visit Hagrid. He had stopped coming to meals at the 
staff table, an ominous sign, and on the few occasions when they had passed him in the corridors or out in the gro unds, he had mysteriously failed to 
notice them or hear their greetings. 
 
"We've got to go and explain," said Hermione, looking up at Hagrid's 
huge empty chair at the staff table the following Saturday at breakfast. 
 
"We've got Quidditch tryouts this  morning!" said Ron. "And we're 
supposed to be practicing that A guamenti Charm from Flitwick! Anyway, 
explain what? How are we going to tell him we hated his stupid subject?" 
 
"We didn't hate it!" said Hermione. 
 
"Speak for yourself, I haven't forgo tten the skrewts," said Ron darkly. 
"And I'm telling you now, we've had a narrow escape. You didn't hear him 
going on about his gormless brother — we'd have been teaching Grawp how 
to tie his shoelaces if we'd stayed." 
 
"I hate not talking to Hagrid ," said Hermione, looking upset. 
 
"We'll go down after Quidditch," Harry assured her. He too was missing 
Hagrid, although like Ron he thought that they were better off without 
Grawp in their lives. "But trials mi ght take all morning, the number of 
people who have applied." He felt slightly nervous at confronting the first 
hurdle of his Captaincy. "I dunno why the team's this popular all of a 
sudden." 
 "Oh, come on, Harry," said Hermione, suddenly impatient. "It's not 
Quidditch that's popular, it's you! You've  never been more interesting, and 
frankly, you've never b een more fanciable." 
 
Ron gagged on a large piece of kipper. Hermione spared him one look of 
disdain before turning back to Harry. 
 
"Everyone knows you've been telling the truth now, don't they? The 
whole Wizarding world has had to admit that you were right about 
Voldemort being back and that you really have fought him twice in the last 
two years and escaped both times. And now they're calling you 'the Chosen 
One' — well, come on, can't you s ee why people are fascinated by you?" 
 
Harry was finding the Great Hall very hot all of a sudden, even though the 
ceiling still looked cold and rainy. 
 
"And you've been through all that persecution from the Ministry when 
they were trying to make out you were  unstable and a liar. You can still see 
the marks on the back of your hand wh ere that evil woman made you write 
with your own blood, but you stuck to your story anyway. ..." 
 
"You can still see where those brains got hold of me in the Ministry, 
look," said Ron, shaking back his sleeves. 
 
"And it doesn't hurt that you've grown about a foot over the summer 
either," Hermione finished, ignoring Ron. 
 "I'm tall," said Ron inconsequentially. 
 
The post owls arrived, swooping down through rain-flecked windows, 
scattering everyone with droplets of wa ter. Most people were receiving more 
post than usual; anxious pare nts were keen to hear from their children and to 
reassure them, in turn, that all was well at home. Harry had received no mail 
since the start of term; his only re gular correspondent was now dead and 
although he had hoped that Lupin might  write occasionally, he had so far 
been disappointed. He was very surprise d, therefore, to see the snowy white 
Hedwig circling amongst all the brown a nd gray owls. She landed in front of 
him carrying a large, square  package. A moment late r, an identical package 
landed in front of Ron, crushing ben eath it his minuscule and exhausted owl, 
Pigwidgeon. 
 
"Ha!" said Harry, unwrapping the pa rcel to reveal a new copy of 
Advanced Potion-Making, fresh  from Flourish and Blotts. 
 
"Oh good," said Hermione, delighted. "Now you can give that graffitied 
copy back." 
 
"Are you mad?" said Harry. "I'm keep ing it! Look, I've thought it out —" 
 
He pulled the old copy of Advanced  Potion-Making out of his bag and 
tapped the cover with his wand, muttering, "Dijjindo!" The cover fell off. He 
did the same thing with the brand- new book (Hermione looked scandalized). 
He then swapped the covers, tapped each, and said, "Reparo!" 
 There sat the Prince's copy, disguise d as a new book, and there sat the 
fresh copy from Flourish and Blotts , looking thoroughly secondhand. 
 
"I'll give Slughorn back the new one , he can't complain, it cost nine 
Galleons." 
 
Hermione pressed her lip s together, looking angr y and disapproving, but 
was distracted by a third owl landing in front of her carrying that day's copy 
of the Daily Prophet. She unfolded it hastily and scanned the front page. 
 
"Anyone we know dead?" asked Ron in a determinedly casual voice; he 
posed the same question every tim e Hermione opene d her paper. 
 
"No, but there have been more deme ntor attacks," said Hermione. "And 
an arrest." 
 
"Excellent, who?" said Harry, thin king of Bellatrix Lestrange. "Stan 
Shunpike," said Hermione. 
 
"What?" said Harry, startled. 
 
"'Stanley Shunpike, conductor on th e popular Wizarding conveyance the 
Knight Bus, has been arrested on suspicion of Death Eater activity. Mr. 
Shunpike, 21, was taken into custody late last night after a raid on his 
Clapham home. . .'" 
 "Stan Shunpike, a Death Eater?" sa id Harry, remembering the spotty 
youth he had first met three years before. "No way!" 
 
"He might have been put under the Im perius Curse," said Ron reasonably. 
"You never can tell." 
 
"It doesn't look like it," said Hermi one, who was still reading. "It says 
here he was arrested af ter he was overheard talki ng about the Death Eaters' 
secret plans in a pub." She looked up with a troubled expression on her face. 
"If he was under the Imperius Curse,  he'd hardly stand around gossiping 
about their plans, would he?" 
 
"It sounds like he was trying to make out he knew more than he did," said 
Ron. "Isn't he the one who claimed he was going to become Minister of 
Magic when he was trying to chat up those veela?" 
 
"Yeah, that's him," said Harry. "I dunno what they're playing at, taking 
Stan seriously." 
 
"They probably want to look as t hough they're doing something," said 
Hermione, frowning. "People are terri fied — you know the Patil twins' 
parents want them to go home? An d Eloise Midgen has already been 
withdrawn. Her father pi cked her up last night." 
 
"What!" said Ron, goggli ng at Hermione. "But H ogwarts is safer than 
their homes, bound to be! We've got Aurors, and all those extra protective 
spells, and we've got Dumbledore!"  
"I don't think we've got him all the time," said Hermione very quietly, 
glancing toward the staff table over the top of the Prophet. "Haven't you 
noticed? His seat's been empty as of ten as Hagrid's this past week." 
 
Harry and Ron looked up at the staff table. The headmaster's chair was 
indeed empty. Now Harry came to thi nk of it, he had not seen Dumbledore 
since their private lesson a week ago. 
 
"I think he's left the school to do something with the Order," said 
Hermione in a low voice. "I mean . . . it's all looking serious, isn't it?" 
 
Harry and Ron did not answer, but Harry  knew that they were all thinking 
the same thing. There had been a ho rrible incident the day before, when 
Hannah Abbott had been taken out of He rbology to be told  her mother had 
been found dead. They had not seen Hannah since. 
 
When they left the Gryffindor table five minutes later to head down to the 
Quidditch pitch, they passed Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil. 
Remembering what Hermione had sa id about the Patil twins' parents 
wanting them to leave Hogwarts, Harry was unsurprised to see that the two 
best friends were whispering together, looking distressed. What did surprise 
him was that when Ron drew level with them, Parvati suddenly nudged 
Lavender, who looked around  and gave Ron a wide smile. Ron blinked at 
her, then returned the smile uncer tainly. His walk instantly became 
something more like a strut. Harry  resisted the temptation to laugh, 
remembering that Ron had refrained from doing so after Malfoy had broken Harry's nose; Hermione, however, looked cold and distant all the way down 
to the stadium through the cool, misty dr izzle, and departed to find a place in 
the stands without wishing Ron good luck. 
 
As Harry had expected, the trials to ok most of the morning. Half of 
Gryffindor House seemed to have tu rned up, from first years who were 
nervously clutching a selection of the dreadful old school brooms, to seventh 
years who towered over the rest, looki ng coolly intimidating. The latter 
included a large, wiry-haired boy Ha rry recognized immediately from the 
Hogwarts Express. 
 
"We met on the train, in old Sluggy's compartment," he said confidently, 
stepping out of the crowd to shak e Harry's hand. "Cormac McLaggen, 
Keeper." 
 
"You didn't try out last year, did you?" asked Harry, taking note of the 
breadth of McLaggen and thinking that  he would probably block all three 
goal hoops without even moving. 
 
"I was in the hospital wing when they  held the trials," said McLaggen, 
with something of a swagger. "Ate  a pound of doxy eggs for a bet." 
 
"Right," said Harry. "Well. . . if you wait over there ..." He pointed over to 
the edge of the pitch, close to wher e Hermione was sitting. He thought he 
saw a flicker of annoyance pass ove r McLaggen's face and wondered 
whether McLaggen expected preferentia l treatment because they were both 
"old Sluggy's" favorites. Harry decided to  start with a basic test, asking all applicants for the team to divide in to groups of ten and fly once around the 
pitch. This was a good decision: the firs t ten was made up of first years, and 
it could not have been plainer that they had hardly ever flown before. Only 
one boy managed to remain airborne for more than a few seconds, and he 
was so surprised he promptly crashed into one of the goal posts. 
 
The second group was comprised of ten of the silliest girls Harry had ever 
encountered, who, when he blew his whistle, merely fell about giggling and 
clutching one another. Romilda Vane was amongst them. When he told them 
to leave the pitch, they di d so quite cheerfully and went to sit in the stands to 
heckle everyone else. 
 
The third group had a pileup halfway around the pitch. Most of the fourth 
group had come without broomsticks. The fifth group were Hufflepuffs. 
 
"If there's anyone else he re who's not from Gryffindor," roared Harry, 
who was starting to get seriously  annoyed, "leave now, please! 
 
There was a pause, then a couple of  little Ravenclaws went sprinting off 
the pitch, snorting with laughter. 
 
After two hours, many complaints, and several tantrums, one involving a 
crashed Comet Two Sixty a nd several broken teeth, Harry had found himself 
three Chasers: Katie Bell, returned to the team after an excellent trial; a new 
find called Demelza Robins, who was particularly good at dodging 
Bludgers; and Ginny Weasley, who ha d outflown all the competition and 
scored seventeen goals to boot. Pleas ed though he was with his choices, Harry had also shouted himself hoars e at the many complainers and was 
now enduring a similar battle w ith the rejected Beaters. 
 
"That's my final decision and if you don't get out of the way of the 
Keepers I'll hex you," he bellowed. 
 
Neither of his chosen Beaters had the old brilliance of Fred and George, 
but he was still reasonably pleased w ith them: Jimmy Peakes, a short but 
broad-chested third-year boy who had mana ged to raise a lump the size of an 
egg on the back of Harry's head with a ferociously hit Bludger, and Ritchie 
Coote, who looked weedy but aimed well.  They now joined Katie, Demelza, 
and Ginny in the stands to watch the se lection of their last team member. 
 
Harry had deliberately left the trial of  the Keepers until last, hoping for an 
emptier stadium and less pressure on all concerned. Unfortunately, however, 
all the rejected players and a numbe r of people who had come down to 
watch after a lengthy breakfast had join ed the crowd by now, so that it was 
larger than ever. As each  Keeper flew up to the goal hoops, the crowd roared 
and jeered in equal measure. Harry glanced over at Ron, who had always 
had a problem with nerves; Harry had hoped that winning their final match 
last term might have cured it, but a pparently not: Ron was a delicate shade 
of green. 
 
None of the first five applicants sa ved more than two goals apiece. To 
Harry's great disappointment, Cormac McLaggen saved four  penalties out of 
five. On the last one, however, he shot off in completely the wrong direction; the crowd laughed and booed and McLaggen returned to the 
ground grinding his teeth. 
 
Ron looked ready to pass out as he  mounted his Cleansweep Eleven. 
"Good luck!" cried a voice from the sta nds. Harry looked around, expecting 
to see Hermione, but it was Lavender Br own. He would have  quite liked to 
have hidden his face in his hands, as sh e did a moment later, but thought that 
as the Captain he ought to show slightly more grit, and so turned to watch 
Ron do his trial. 
 
Yet he need not have worried: Ron saved one, two, three, four, five 
penalties in a row. Delighted, and resis ting joining in the cheers of the crowd 
with difficulty, Harry turned to McLaggen to tell him that, most 
unfortunately, Ron had beaten him, onl y to find McLaggen's red face inches 
from his own. He stepped back hastily. 
 
"His sister didn't really try," sa id McLaggen menacingly. There was a 
vein pulsing in his temple like the one  Harry had often ad-mired in Uncle 
Vernon's. "She gave him an easy save." 
 
"Rubbish," said Harry coldly. "Tha t was the one he nearly missed." 
 
McLaggen took a step nearer Harry , who stood his ground this time. 
 
"Give me another go." 
 "No," said Harry. "You've had your go.  You saved four. Ron saved five. 
Ron's Keeper, he won it fair a nd square. Get out of my way." 
 
He thought for a moment that Mc Laggen might punch him, but he 
contented himself with an ugly grim ace and stormed away, growling what 
sounded like threats to thin air. 
 
Harry turned around to find his new team beaming at him. 
 
"Well done," he croaked. "You flew really well —" 
 
"You did brilliantly, Ron!" 
 
This time it really was Hermione r unning toward them from the stands; 
Harry saw Lavender walking of f the pitch, arm in arm with Parvati, a rather 
grumpy expression on her face. Ron lo oked extremely pleased with himself 
and even taller than usual as he grinned at the team and at Hermione. 
 
After fixing the time of their first fu ll practice for the following Thursday, 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione bade good-bye to the rest of the team and headed 
off toward Hagrid's. A watery sun was trying to break through the clouds 
now and it had stopped drizzling at la st. Harry felt extremely hungry; he 
hoped there would be some-thing to eat at Hagrid's. 
 
"I thought I was going to miss that  fourth penalty, " Ron was saying 
happily. "Tricky shot from Demelza, di d you see, had a bit of spin on it —" 
 "Yes, yes, you were magnificent,"  said Hermione, looking amused. 
 
"I was better than that McLaggen anyw ay," said Ron in a highly satisfied 
voice. "Did you see him lumbering off in the wrong direction on his fifth? 
Looked like he'd been Confunded. ..." 
 
To Harry's surprise, Hermione turned a very deep shade of pink at these 
words. Ron noticed nothing; he was t oo busy describing ea ch of his other 
penalties in loving detail. 
 
The great gray hippogriff, Buckbeak, was tethered in front of Hagrid's 
cabin. He clicked his razor-sharp beak at  their approach and turned his huge 
head toward them. 
 
"Oh dear," said Hermione nervously. "He's still a bit scary, isn't he?" 
 
"Come off it, you've ridden him, have n't you?" said Ron. Harry stepped 
forward and bowed low to the hippogr iff without breaking eye contact or 
blinking. After a few seconds, Bu ckbeak sank into a bow too. 
 
"How are you?" Harry asked him in  a low voice, moving forward to 
stroke the feathery head. "Missing hi m? But you're okay here with Hagrid, 
aren't you?" 
 
"Oi!" said a loud voice. 
 Hagrid had come striding around the co rner of his cabin wearing a large 
flowery apron and carrying a sack of  potatoes. His enormous boarhound, 
Fang, was at his heels; Fang gave a booming bark and bounded forward. 
 
"Git away from him! He'll have ye r fingers — oh. It's yeh lot." 
 
Fang was jumping up at He rmione and Ron, attempting to lick their ears. 
Hagrid stood and looked at them all for a split second, then turned and strode 
into his cabin, slamming the door behind him. 
 
"Oh dear!" said Hermione, looking stricken. 
 
"Don't worry about it," said Harry gr imly. He walked over to the door and 
knocked loudly. "Hagrid! Open up, we want to talk to you!" 
 
There was no sound from within. 
 
"If you don't open the door, we'll blast it open!" Harry said, pulling out his 
wand. 
 
"Harry!" said Hermione, sounding shocked. "You can't possibly —" 
 
"Yeah, I can!" said Harry. "Stand back —" 
 
But before he could say anything else, the door flew open again as Harry 
had known it would, and there stood Hagrid, glowering down at him and 
looking, despite the flowery apron, positively alarming.  
"I'm a teacher!" he roared at Harry . "A teacher, Potter! How dare yeh 
threaten ter break down my door!" 
 
"I'm sorry, sir" said Harry, emphasizi ng the last word as he stowed his 
wand inside his robes. 
 
Hagrid looked stunned. "Since wh en have yeh ca lled me 'sir'?" 
 
"Since when have you called me 'Potter'?" 
 
"Oh, very clever," growled Hagrid. "V ery amusin'. That's me outsmarted, 
innit? All righ', come in th en, yeh ungrateful little . . ." 
 
Mumbling darkly, he stood back to let them pass. Hermione scurried in 
after Harry, looking rather frightened. 
 
"Well?" said Hagrid grumpily, as Harry, Ron, and He rmione sat down 
around his enormous wooden table, Fa ng laying his head immediately upon 
Harry's knee and drooling all over his ro bes. "What's this? Feelin' sorry for 
me? Reckon I'm lonely or summat?" 
 
"No," said Harry at once.  "We wanted to see you." 
 
"We've missed you!" said Hermione tremulously. 
 
"Missed me, have yeh?" snor ted Hagrid. "Yeah. Righ'."  
He stomped around, brewing up tea in his enormous copper kettle, 
muttering all the while. Finally he sl ammed down three bucket-sized mugs 
of mahogany-brown tea in front of them and a plate of his rock cakes. Harry 
was hungry enough even for Hagrid's cooking, and took one at once. 
 
"Hagrid," said Hermione timidly, when  he joined them at the table and 
started peeling his potatoes with a brut ality that suggested that each tuber 
had done him a great personal wrong, "w e really wanted to carry on with 
Care of Magical Creatures, you know." Hagrid gave another great snort. 
Harry rather thought some bo-geys lande d on the potatoes, and was inwardly 
thankful that they were not staying for dinner. 
 
"We did!" said Hermione. "But none of us could fit it into our schedules!" 
 
"Yeah. Righ'," said Hagrid again. 
 
There was a funny squelching sou nd and they all looked around: 
Hermione let out a tiny shriek, and Ron leapt out of his seat and hurried 
around the table away from the large barrel  standing in the corner that they 
had only just noticed. It was full of what looked like foot-long maggots, slimy, white, and writhing. 
 
"What are they, Hagrid?" asked Harry, trying to sound interested rather 
than revolted, but putting down his rock cake all the same. 
 
"Jus' giant grubs," said Hagrid.  
"And they grow into ... ?" sa id Ron, looking apprehensive. 
 
"They won' grow inter nut hin'," said Hagrid. "I  got 'em ter feed ter 
Aragog." 
 
And without warning, he burst into tears. 
 
"Hagrid!" cried Hermione, leaping up,  hurrying around the table the long 
way to avoid the barrel of maggots, and putting an arm around his shaking 
shoulders. "What is it?" 
 
"It's. . . him . .." gulped Hagrid, his beetle-black eyes stream-ing as he 
mopped his face with his apron. "It's . . . Aragog. ... I think he's dyin'. . , . He 
got ill over the summer an' he's not gettin' better.... I don' know what I'll do if 
he ... if he ... We've bin tergether so long. ..." 
 
Hermione patted Hagrid's shoulder,  looking at a complete loss for 
anything to say. Harry knew how she felt. He had known Hagrid to present a 
vicious baby dragon with a teddy bear , seen him croon ove r giant scorpions 
with suckers and stingers, attempt to re ason with his brutal giant of a half-
brother, but this was perhaps the most  incomprehensible of all his monster 
fancies: the gigantic talking spider , Aragog, who dwelled deep in the 
Forbidden Forest and which he and Ron had only narrowly escaped four 
years previously. 
 "Is there — is there anything we can do?" Hermione asked, ignoring 
Ron's frantic grimaces  and head-shakings. 
 
"I don' think there is, Hermione," choked Hagrid, attempting to stem the 
flood of his tears. "See, the rest o' the tribe ... Aragog's family . . . they're 
gettin' a bit funny now he's ill... bit restive ..." 
 
"Yeah, I think we saw a bit of that side of them," said Ron in an 
undertone. 
 
"... I don' reckon it'd be sa fe fer anyone but me ter go near the colony at 
the mo'," Hagrid finished, blowing his nose hard on his apron and looking 
up. "But thanks fer offerin', Hermione. ... It means a lot." 
 
After that, the atmosphere lightened  considerably, for although neither 
Harry nor Ron had shown a ny inclination to go and feed giant grubs to a 
murderous, gargantuan spider, Hagrid seem ed to take it for granted that they 
would have liked to have done and became his usual self once more. 
 
"Ar, I always knew yeh'd find it hard ter squeeze me  inter yer timetables," 
he said gruffly, pouring them more tea. "Even if yeh applied fer Time-
Turners —" 
 
"We couldn't have done," said Hermi one. "We smashed the entire stock of 
Ministry Time-Turners when we were there last summer. It was in the Daily 
Prophet." 
 "Ar, well then," said Hagrid. "There's  no way yeh could've  done it. ... I'm 
sorry I've bin — yeh know — I've jus' bin worried about Aragog ... an I did 
wonder whether, if Professor Grubbl y-Plank had bin teachin' yeh —" 
 
At which all three of them stated categorically and untruthfully that 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, who had substitut ed for Hagrid a few times, was a 
dreadful teacher, with the result that by the time Hagrid waved them off the 
premises at dusk, he looked quite cheerful. 
 
"I'm starving," said Harry, once the door  had closed behind them and they 
were hurrying through the dark and de serted grounds; he had abandoned the 
rock cake after an ominous cracking noise  from one of his back teeth. "And 
I've got that detention with Snape tonight, I haven't got much time for 
dinner." 
 
As they came into the castle they spotted Cormac McLaggen entering the 
Great Hall. It took him two attempts to get through the doors; he ricocheted 
off the frame on the first attempt. Ron merely guffawed gloatingly and 
strode off into the Hall after him, but  Harry caught Hermione's arm and held 
her back. 
 
"What?" said Hermi one defensively. 
 
"If you ask me," said Harry quie tly, "McLaggen looks like he was 
Confunded this morning. And he was standing right in front of where you were sitting." 
 Hermione blushed. 
 
"Oh, all right then, I did it," she wh ispered. "But you s hould have heard 
the way he was talking about Ron a nd Ginny! Anyway, he's got a nasty 
temper, you saw how he reacted when he didn't get in — you wouldn't have 
wanted someone like that on the team." 
 
 
"No," said Harry. "No, I suppose that's true. But wasn't that dishonest, 
Hermione? I mean, you're a prefect, aren't you?" 
 
"Oh, be quiet," she sna pped, as he smirked. 
 
"What are you two doing?" demanded R on, reappearing in the doorway to 
the Great Hall and looking suspicious. 
 
"Nothing," said Harry and Hermione together, and they hurried after Ron. 
The smell of roast beef made Harry's  stomach ache with hunger, but they 
had barely taken three steps toward the Gryffindor table when Professor 
Slughorn appeared in front of them, blocking their path. 
 
"Harry, Harry, just the man I was hopi ng to see!" he boomed genially, 
twiddling the ends of his walrus mu stache and puffing out his enormous 
belly, "I was hoping to catch you before  dinner! What do you say to a spot 
of supper tonight in my rooms instead? We're having a little party, just a few rising stars, I've got McLaggen co ming and Zabini, the charming Melinda 
Bobbin — I don't know whether you know  her? Her family owns a large chain of apothecaries — and, of course , I hope very much that Miss Granger 
will favor me by coming too." 
 
Slughorn made Hermione a little bow as he finished  speaking. It was as 
though Ron was not present; Slughorn did not so much as look at him. 
 
"I can't come, Professor," said Harry at once. "I've got a detention with 
Professor Snape." 
 
"Oh dear!" said Slughorn, his face falling comically. "Dear, dear, I was 
counting on you, Harry! Well,  now, I'll just have to  have a word with 
Severus and explain the situation. I'm su re I'll be able to persuade him to 
postpone your detention. Yes, I'll see you both later!" He bustled away out 
of the Hall. 
 
"He's got no chance of persuading Snape," said Harry, the moment 
Slughorn was out of earshot. "This detention’s already been postponed once; 
Snape did it for Dumbledore, but he won't do it for anyone else." 
 
"Oh, I wish you could come, I don' t want to go on my own!" said 
Hermione anxiously; Harry knew that  she was thinking about McLaggen. 
 
"I doubt you'll be alone, Ginny'll probably be invited," snapped Ron, who 
did not seem to have taken kindly  to being ignored by Slughorn. 
 
After dinner they made their way back  to Gryffindor Tower. The common 
room was very crowded, as most pe ople had finished dinner by now, but they managed to find a free table and sat down; Ron, who had been in a bad 
mood ever since the encounter with Sl ughorn, folded his arms and frowned 
at the ceiling. Hermione reached out  for a copy of the Evening Prophet, 
which somebody had left abandoned on a chair. 
 
"Anything new?" said Harry. 
 
"Not really. . ." Hermione had ope ned the newspaper and was scanning 
the inside pages. "Oh, look, your dad' s in here, Ron — he's all right!" she 
added quickly, for Ron had looked around in  alarm. "It just says he's been to 
visit the Malfoys' house.  'This second s earch of the Death Eaters residence 
does not seem to have yiel ded any results. Arthur Weasley of the Office for 
the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and 
Protective Objects said that his team had been acting upon a confidential tip-
off.'" 
 
"Yeah, mine!" said Harry. "I told him at Kings Cross about Malfoy and 
that thing he was trying to get Borgin to  fix! Well, if it's not at their house, 
he must have brought whatever it is to Hogwarts with him —" 
 
"But how can he have done, Harry?"  said Hermione, putting down the 
newspaper with a surprised look. "We we re all searched when we arrived, 
weren't we?" 
 
"Were you?" said Harry, ta ken aback. "I wasn't!" 
 "Oh no, of course you were n't, I forgot you were la te. Well, Filch ran over 
all of us with Secrecy Sensors when we  got into the entrance hall. Any Dark 
object would have been found, I know fo r a fact Crabbe had a shrunken head 
confiscated. So you see, Malfoy can't ha ve brought in anything dangerous!" 
 
Momentarily stymied, Harry watc hed Ginny Weasley playing with 
Arnold the Pygmy Puff for a while before seeing a way around this 
objection. 
 
"Someone's sent it to him by owl,  then," he said. "His mother or 
someone." 
 
"All the owls are being checked too," said Hermione. "Filch told us so 
when he was jabbing those Secrecy Se nsors everywhere he could reach." 
 
Really stumped this time, Harry found nothing else to say. There did not 
seem to be any way Malf oy could have brought a da ngerous or Dark object 
into the school. He looked hopefully at  Ron, who was sitting with his arms 
folded, staring over at Lavender Brown. 
 
"Can you think of any way Malfoy — ?" 
 
"Oh, drop it, Harry," said Ron. 
 
"Listen, it's not my fault Slughorn in vited Hermione and me to his stupid 
party, neither of us wanted to go, you know!" said Harry, firing up. 
 "Well, as I'm not invite d to any parties," said Ron, getting to his feet 
again, "I think I'll go to bed." 
 
He stomped off toward the door to the boys' dormitories, leaving Harry 
and Hermione staring after him. 
 
"Harry?" said the new Ch aser, Demelza Robins, appearing suddenly at his 
shoulder. "I've got a message for you." 
 
"From Professor Slughorn?" asked Harry, sitting up hopefully. 
 
"No ... from Professor Snape," said Deme lza. Harry's heart sank. "He says 
you're to come to his office at half past eight tonight to do your detention — 
er — no matter how many party invitati ons you've received. And he wanted 
you to know you'll be sorting out ro tten flobberworms from good ones, to 
use in Potions and — and he says ther e's no need to bring protective gloves." 
 
"Right," said Harry grimly. "Thanks a lot, Demelza." 
CHAPTER 12
 
Where was Dumbledore, and what was he doing? 
 
Harry caught sight of the headmaster only twice over the next few weeks. 
He rarely appeared at meals anymor e, and Harry was sure Hermione was 
right in thinking that he was leavi ng the school for days at a time. Had 
Dumbledore forgotten the lessons he was supposed to be giving Harry? 
Dumbledore had said that the lessons we re leading to something to do with 
the prophecy; Harry had felt bolstered, comforted, and now he felt slightly 
abandoned. 
 
Halfway through October came their firs t trip of the term to Hogsmeade. 
Harry had wondered whether these trips would still be allowed, given the increasingly tight security measures around the school, but was pleased to 
know that they were going ahead; it wa s always good to get out of the castle 
grounds for a few hours. 
 
Harry woke early on the morning of the trip, which was proving stormy, 
and whiled away the time until breakfast  by reading his copy of Advanced 
Potion-Making. He did not usually lie in  bed reading his textbooks; that sort 
of behavior, as Ron rightly said, wa s indecent in anybody except Hermione, 
who was simply weird that way. Harry felt, however, that the Half-Blood Princes copy of Advanced Potion-Ma king hardly qualified as a textbook. 
The more Harry pored over the book, the more he realized how much was in 
there, not only the handy hints and shor tcuts on potions that was earning him 
such a glowing reputation with Slu ghorn, but also the imaginative little jinxes and hexes scribbled in the margins, which Ha rry was sure, judging by 
the crossings-out and revisions, that  the Prince had invented himself. 
 
Harry had already attempted a few of  the Prince's self-invented spells. 
There had been a hex that caused toenai ls to grow alarmingly fast (he had 
tried this on Crabbe in the corridor, with very entertaining results); a jinx 
that glued the tongue to the roof of the mouth (which he had twice used, to 
general applause, on an unsuspecting Argus  Filch); and, perhaps most useful 
of all, Muffliato, a spell that fille d the ears of anyone nearby with an 
unidentifiable buzzing, so that lengthy co nversations could be held in class 
with out being overheard. The only pe rson who did not find these charms 
amusing was Hermione, who maintained  a rigidly disapproving expression 
throughout and refused to talk at all if Harry had used the Muffliato spell on 
anyone in the vicinity. 
 
Sitting up in bed, Harry turned the book sideways so as to examine more 
closely the scribbled instructions for a spell that seemed to have caused the 
Prince some trouble. There were many crossings-out and alterations, but 
finally, crammed into a corner  of the page, the scribble: 
 
Levicorpus (nvbl) 
 
While the wind and sleet pounded re lentlessly on the windows, and 
Neville snored loudly, Harry stared at th e letters in brackets. Nvbl . . that had 
to mean "nonverbal." Harry rather doubted he would be able to bring off this 
particular spell; he was still havi ng difficulty with nonverbal spells, 
something Snape had been quick to co mment on in every D.A.D.A. class. On the other hand, the Prince had proved a much more effective teacher than 
Snape so far. 
 
Pointing his wand at nothing in partic ular, he gave it an upward flick and 
said Levicorpus! inside his head. "Aaaaaaaargh!" 
 
There was a flash of light and the room was full of voices: Everyone had 
woken up as Ron had let out a yell.  Harry sent Advanced Potion-Making 
flying in panic; Ron was dangling upside down in midair as though an 
invisible hook had hoisted him up by the ankle. 
 
"Sorry!" yelled Harry, as Dean and Seamus roared with laughter, and 
Neville picked himself up from the floo r, having fallen out of Bed. "Hang on 
— I'll let you down —" 
 
He groped for the potion book and riffled  through it in a panic, trying to 
find the right page; at last he located it and deciphered the cramped word 
underneath the spell: Praying that this was the counter-jin x, Harry thought 
Liberacorpus! with all his might. Ther e was another flash of light, and Ron 
fell in a heap onto his mattress. 
 
"Sorry," repeated Harry weakly, wh ile Dean and Seamus continued to 
roar with laughter. 
 
"Tomorrow," said Ron in a muffled vo ice, "I'd rather you set the alarm 
clock." 
 By the time they had got dressed, pa dding themselves out with several of 
Mrs. Weasleys hand-knitted sweaters and carrying cloaks, scarves, and 
gloves, Ron's shock had s ubsided and he had decided that Harry's new spell 
was highly amusing; so amusing, in fact, that he lost no time in regaling 
Hermione with the story as they sat down for breakfast. 
 
"... and then there was another flas h, of light and I landed on the bed 
again!" Ron grinned, helping himself to sausages. 
 
Hermione had not cracked a smile dur ing this anecdote, and now turned 
an expression of wintry  disapproval upon Harry. 
 
"Was this spell, by any chance, a nother one from that potion book of 
yours?" she asked. 
 
Harry frowned at her. 
 
"Always jump to the worst conclusion, don't you?" 
 
"Was it?" 
 
"Well. . . yeah, it was, but so what?" 
 
"So you just decided to try out an unknown, handwritten incantation and 
see what would happen?" 
 "Why does it matter if it's handwritte n?" said Harry, preferring not to 
answer the rest of the question. 
 
"Because it’s probably not Ministry of Magic approved," said Hermione. 
"And also," she added, as Harry and Ron rolled their eyes, "because I'm 
starting to think this Prin ce character was a bit dodgy." 
 
Both Harry and Ron shouted her down at once. 
 
"It was a laugh!" said Ron, upending a ketchup bottle over his sausages. 
"Just a laugh, Hermione, that's all!" 
 
"Dangling people upside down by the ankle?" said Hermi-one. "Who puts 
their time and energy into making up spells like that?" 
 
"Fred and George," said Ron, shruggi ng, "it's their kind of thing. And, 
er—" 
 
"My dad," said Harry. He had only just remembered. 
 
"What?" said Ron and Hermione together. 
 
"My dad used this spell," said  Harry. "I — Lupin told me." 
 
'This last part was not true; in fact, Harry had seen his father use the spell 
on Snape, but he had never told Ron and Hermione about that particular excursion into the Pensieve. Now, however, a wonderful possibility occurred 
to him. Could the Half-B lood Prince possibly be — ? 
 
"Maybe your dad did use it, Harry," said Hermione, "but he's not the only 
one. We've seen a whole bunch of people use it, in case you've forgotten. 
Dangling people in the air. Making th em float along, asleep, helpless." 
 
Harry stared at her. With a sinki ng feeling, he too remembered the 
behavior of the Death Eaters at the Quidditch World Cup. Ron came to his 
aid. 
 
"That was different," he said robustly. "They were abusing it. Harry and 
his dad were just having a laugh. You don't like the Prince, Hermione," he added, pointing a sausage at her sternl y, "because he's better than you at 
Potions —" 
 
"It's got nothing to do with that!" said Hermione, her cheeks reddening. "I 
just think it's very irresponsible to start performing spells when you don't even know what they're for, and stop talking about 'the Prince' as if it's his 
title, I bet it's just a stupid nickname, a nd it doesn't seem as though he was a 
very nice person to me!" 
 
"I don't see where you get that from," sa id Harry heatedly. "If he'd been a 
budding Death Eater he wouldn't have  been boasting about being 'half-
blood,' would he?" 
 Even as he said it, Harry remembered that his father had been pure-blood, 
but he pushed the thought out of his mind;  he would worry about that later. 
 
"The Death Eaters can't all be pure-blood, there aren't enough pure-blood 
wizards left," said Hermione stubbornly.  "I expect most of them are half-
bloods pretending to be pure. It's onl y Muggle-borns they hate, they'd be 
quite happy to let you and Ron join up." 
 
"There is no way they'd let me be a Death Eater!"  said Ron indignantly, a 
bit of sausage flying off the fork he  was now brandishin g at Hermione and 
hitting Ernie Macmillan on the head. "My whole family are blood traitors! 
That's as bad as Muggle-borns to Death Eaters!" 
 
"And they'd love to have me," said Ha rry sarcastically. "W e'd be best pals 
if they didn't keep trying to do me in." 
 
This made Ron laugh; even Herm ione gave a grudging smile, and a 
distraction arrived in the shape of Ginny. 
 
"Hey, Harry, I'm supposed to give you this." 
 
It was a scroll of parchment with Harry 's name written upon it in familiar 
thin, slanting writing. 
 
"Thanks, Ginny. . . It's Dumbledore's next lesson!" Harry  told Ron and 
Hermione, pulling open the parchment and quickly read-ing its contents. "Monday evening!" He felt suddenly light  and happy. "Want to join us in 
Hogsmeade, Ginny?" he asked. 
 
"I'm going with Dean — might see you there," she replied, waving at 
them as she left. 
 
  
 
Filch was standing at the oak front do ors as usual, checking off the names 
of people who had permissi on to go into Hogsmeade. The process took even 
longer than normal as Filch was triple-checking everybody with his Secrecy 
Sensor. 
 
"What does it matter if we're smugg ling Dark stuff OUT?" demanded 
Ron, eyeing the long thin Secrecy Se nsor with apprehension. "Surely you 
ought to be checking what  we bring back IN?" 
 
His cheek earned him a few extra jabs with the Sensor, and he was still 
wincing as they stepped out into the wind and sleet. 
 
The walk into Hogsmeade was not en joyable. Harry wrapped his scarf 
over his lower face; the exposed part soon felt both raw and numb. The road to the village was full of students bent  double against the bitter wind. More 
than once Harry wondered whether they might not have had a better time in 
the warm common room, and when th ey finally reached Hogsmeade and 
saw that Zonko's Joke Shop had been boarded up, Harry took it as confirmation that this trip was not destined to be fun. Ron pointed, with a thickly gloved hand, towa rd Honeydukes, which was mercifully open, and 
Harry and Hermione sta ggered in his wake into the crowded shop. 
 
"Thank God," shivered Ron as they  were enveloped by warm, toffee-
scented air. "Let's st ay here all afternoon." 
 
"Harry, m'boy!" said a booming voice from behind them. 
 
"Oh no," muttered Harry. The three of  them turned to see Professor 
Slughorn, who was wearing an enormo us furry hat and an overcoat with 
matching fur collar, clutching a large bag of crystalized pineapple, and 
occupying at least a quarter of the shop. 
 
"Harry, that's three of my little suppers you've missed now!" said 
Slughorn, poking him genially in the chest. "It won't do, m'boy, I'm 
determined to have you! Miss Granger loves them, don't you?" 
 
"Yes," said Hermione helple ssly, "they're really —" 
 
"So why don't you come along, Harry?" demanded Slughorn. 
 
"Well, I've had Quidd itch practice, Professor, " said Harry, who had 
indeed been scheduling practices every time Slughorn had sent him a little, 
violet ribbon-adorned invitation. This strategy meant that Ron was not left 
out, and they usually had a laugh with Ginny, imagining Hermione shut up 
with McLaggen and Zabini. 
 "Well, I certainly expect you to win your first match af ter all the hard 
work!" said Slughorn. "But a little  recreation never hurt any body. Now, 
how about Monday night, you can't possibly want to practice in this 
weather...." 
 
"I can't, Professor, I've got — er — an appointment with Professor 
Dumbledore that evening." 
 
"Unlucky again!" cried Slughorn dram atically. "Ah, well . . . you can't 
evade me forever, Harry!" 
 
And with a regal wave, he waddled out of the shop, taking as little notice 
of Ron as though he had been a display of Cockroach Clusters. 
 
"I can't believe you've wriggled out  of another one,"  said Hermione, 
shaking her head. "They're not that ba d, you know. . . They're even quite fun 
sometimes. . . ." But then she caught sight of Ron's expr ession. "Oh, look — 
they've got deluxe sugar quills — those would last hours!" 
 
Glad that Hermione had changed th e subject, Harry s howed much more 
interest in the new extra-large suga r quills than he would normally have 
done, but Ron continued to look moody and merely shrugged when 
Hermione asked him where he wanted to go next. 
 
"Let's go to the Three Broomsticks ," said Harry. "It'll be warm." 
 They bundled their scarves back over their faces and left the sweetshop. 
The bitter wind was like knives on their faces after the sugary warmth of 
Honeydukes. The street was not very busy; nobody was lingering to chat, 
just hurrying toward their destinati ons. The exceptions were two men a little 
ahead of them, standing just outside the Three Broomsticks. One was very 
tall and thin; squinting th rough his rain-washed gla sses Harry recognized the 
barman who worked in the other Hogs meade pub, the Hog's Head. As Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione drew closer, the barman drew his cloak more tightly 
around his neck and walked away, leavi ng the shorter man to fumble with 
something in his arms. They were bare ly feet from him wh en Harry realized 
who the man was. 
 
"Mundungus!" 
 
The squat, bandy-legged man with long,  straggly, ginger hair jumped and 
dropped an ancient suitcase, which bur st open, releasing what looked like 
the entire contents of a junk shop window. 
 
"Oh, 'ello, 'Arry," said Mundungus Fletcher, with a most unconvincing 
stab at airiness. "Well,  don't let me keep ya." 
 
And he began scrabbling on  the ground to retrieve the contents of his 
suitcase with every appearance  of a man eager to be gone. 
 
"Are you selling this stuff?" asked Ha rry, watching Mundungus grab an 
assortment of grubby-looking objects from the ground. 
 "Oh, well, gotta scra pe a living," said Mundungus. "Gimme that!" 
 
Ron had stooped down and picked up something silver. 
 
"Hang on," Ron said slowly . "This looks familiar —" 
 
"Thank you!" said Mundungus, snatch ing the goblet out of Ron's hand 
and stuffing it back into the case.  "Well, I'll see you all _ OUCH!" 
 
Harry had pinned Mundungus against the wall of the pub by the throat. 
Holding him fast with one ha nd, he pulled out his wand. 
 
"Harry!" squealed Hermione. 
 
"You took that from Sinus's house," said Harry, who was almost nose to 
nose with Mundungus and was breathing in an unpleasant smell of old 
tobacco and spirits. "That had the Black family crest on it." 
 
"I — no — what — ?" spluttered Mundungus, who was slowly turning 
purple. 
 
"What did you do, go back the night he died and strip the place?" snarled 
Harry. 
 
"I — no — " 
 
"Give it to me!"  
"Harry, you mustn't!" shrieked Herm ione, as Mundungus started to turn 
blue. 
 
There was a bang, and Harry felt hi s hands fly off Mundungus's throat. 
Gasping and spluttering, Mundungus seized his fallen case, then — 
CRACK— he Disapparated. 
 
Harry swore at the top of his voice, spinning on the spot to see where 
Mundungus had gone. 
 
"COME BACK, YOU THIEVING — !" 
 
"There's no point, Harry." Tonks had appeared out of nowhere, her mousy 
hair wet with sleet. 
 
"Mundungus will probably be in London by now. There's no point 
yelling." 
 
"He's nicked Sirius's stuff! Nicked it!" 
 
"Yes, but still," said Tonks, who se emed perfectly untroubled by this 
piece of information. "You should get out of the cold." 
 
She watched them go through the door  of the Three Broom-sticks. The 
moment he was inside, Harry burst ou t, "He was nicking Sirius's stuff!" 
 "I know, Harry, but please don't shout, people are staring," whispered 
Hermione. "Go and sit down,  I'll get you a drink." 
 
Harry was still fuming when Hermione  returned to their table a few 
minutes later holding three bottles of butterbeer. 
 
"Can't the Order control Mundungus?"  Harry demanded of the other two 
in a furious whisper. "Can't they at least stop him stealing everything that's 
not fixed down when he's at headquarters?" 
 
"Shh!" said Hermione desperately, looking around to make sure nobody 
was listening; there were a couple of warlocks sitting close by who were 
staring at Harry with great interest, and Zabini was lolling against a pillar 
not far away. "Harry, I'd be annoyed too, I know it's your things he's 
stealing—" 
 
Harry gagged on his butterbeer; he ha d momentarily forgotten that he 
owned number twelve, Grimmauld Place. 
 
"Yeah, it's my stuff!" he said. "No wonder he wa sn't pleased to see me! 
Well, I'm going to tell Dumbledore what's going on, he's the only one who 
scares Mundungus." 
 
"Good idea," whispered Hermione, cl early pleased that Harry was 
calming down. "Ron, what  are you staring at?" 
 "Nothing," said Ron, hastily looking away from the bar, but Harry knew 
he was trying to catch the eye of th e curvy and attractive bar-maid, Madam 
Rosmerta, for whom he ha d long nursed a soft spot. 
 
"I expect 'nothing's' in the back ge tting more firewhisky," said Hermione 
waspishly. 
 
Ron ignored this jibe, sipping his drink in what he evidently considered to 
be a dignified silence. Harry was th inking about Sirius, and how he had 
hated those silver goblets anyway. He rmione drummed her fingers on the 
table, her eyes flickering between Ron and the bar. The moment Harry 
drained the last drops in his bottle she said, "Shall we call it a day and go 
back to school, then?" 
 
The other two nodded; it had not been  a fun trip and the weather was 
getting worse the longer they stayed. Once again they drew their cloaks 
tightly around them, rearranged their scarves, pulled on their gloves, then 
followed Katie Bell and a friend out of  the pub and back up the High Street. 
Harry's thoughts strayed to Ginny as they trudged up the road to Hogwarts through the frozen slush. They had not met up with her, undoubtedly, 
thought Harry, because she and Dean were cozily closeted in Madam 
Puddifoot's Tea Shop, that haunt of happy couples. Scowling, he bowed his 
head against the swirling sleet and trudged on. 
 
It was a little while before Harry beca me aware that the voices of Katie 
Bell and her friend, which were being carried back to him on the wind, had 
become shriller and louder. Harry squint ed at their indistinct figures. The two girls were having an argument a bout something Katie was holding in 
her hand. "It's nothing to do with you,  Leanne!" Harry heard Katie say. 
 
They rounded a corner in the lane, sl eet coming thick and fast, blurring 
Harry's glasses. Just as he raised a gloved hand to wipe them, Leanne made 
to grab hold of the package Katie was holding; Katie tugged it back and the 
package fell to the ground. 
 
At once, Katie rose into the air, not  as Ron had done, suspended comically 
by the ankle, but gracefully, her arms outstretched, as though she was about 
to fly. Yet there was something wrong,  something eerie. . . . Her hair was 
whipped around her by the fierce wind, but her eyes were closed and her 
face was quite empty of expression. Ha rry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne had 
all halted in their tracks, watching. 
 
Then, six feet above the ground, Katie let out a terrible scream. Her eyes 
flew open but whatever she could see,  or whatever she was feeling, was 
clearly causing her terrible anguish. She screamed and screamed; Leanne 
started to scream too and seized Katie's ankles, trying to tug her back to the 
ground. Harry, Ron, and Hermione rushed  forward to help, but even as they 
grabbed Katie's legs, she fell on top of them; Harry and Ron managed to 
catch her but she was writhing so much they could hardly hold her. Instead 
they lowered her to the ground where she thrashed and screamed, apparently 
unable to recognize any of them. 
 
Harry looked around; the landscape seemed deserted. 
 "Stay there!" he shouted at the others over the howling wind. "I'm going 
for help!" 
 
He began to sprint toward the school; he had never seen anyone behave as 
Katie had just behaved and could not think what had caused it; he hurtled 
around a bend in the lane and collided with  what seemed to be an enormous 
bear on its hind legs. 
 
"Hagrid!" he panted, disentangling himself from the hedgerow into which 
he had fallen. 
 
"Harry!" said Hagrid, who had sleet trapped in his eyebrows and beard, 
and was wearing his great, shaggy beaver skin coat. "Jus' bin visitin' Grawp, 
he's comin' on so well yeh wouldn' —" 
 
"Hagrid, someone's hurt back ther e, or cursed, or something —" 
 
"Wha ?" said Hagrid, be nding lower to hear what  Harry was saying over 
the raging wind. 
 
"Someone's been cursed!" bellowed Harry. 
 
"Cursed? Who's bin cursed  — not Ron? Hermione?" 
 
"No, it's not them, it's Ka tie Bell — this way . . ." 
 Together they ran back along the lane . It took them no time to find the 
little group of people ar ound Katie, who was still wr ithing and screaming on 
the ground; Ron, Hermione, and Lea nne were all trying to quiet her. 
 
"Get back!" shouted Ha grid. "Lemme see her!" 
 
"Something's happened to her!" sobbe d Leanne. "I don't know what —" 
 
Hagrid stared at Katie for a second,  then without a word, bent down, 
scooped her into his arms, and ran off toward the castle with her. Within 
seconds, Katie's piercing screams had di ed away and the only sound was the 
roar of the wind. 
 
Hermione hurried over to Katie's  wailing friend and put an arm around 
her. 
 
"It's Leanne, isn't it?" 
 
The girl nodded. 
 
"Did it just happen all of a sudden, or — ?" 
 
"It was when that package tore," sobbed Leanne, pointing at the now 
sodden brown-paper package on the ground,  which had split open to reveal a 
greenish glitter. Ron bent down, his ha nd out-stretched, but Harry seized his 
arm and pulled him back. 
 "Don't touch it!" 
 
He crouched down. An orna te opal necklace was vi sible, poking out of the 
paper. 
 
"I've seen that before," said Harry, st aring at the thing. "It was on display 
in Borgin and Burkes ages ago. The label said it was cu rsed. Katie must 
have touched it." He looked up at Leanne, who had started to shake 
uncontrollably. "How did Katie get hold of this?" 
 
"Well, that's why we were arguing. She came back from the bathroom in 
the Three Broomsticks holding it, sa id it was a surprise for somebody at 
Hogwarts and she had to deliver it. Sh e looked all funny when she said it. ... 
Oh no, oh no, I bet she'd been Imperiused and I didn't realize!" 
 
Leanne shook with renewed sobs. Hermione patted her shoulder gently. 
 
"She didn't say who'd given it to her, Leanne?" 
 
"No . . . she wouldn't tell me . . . a nd I said she was being stupid and not 
to take it up to school, but she just wouldn't listen and . . . and then I tried to 
grab it from her . . . and — and —" 
 
Leanne let out a wail of despair. 
 
"We'd better get up to school," sa id Hermione, her arm still around 
Leanne. "We'll be able to find out  how she is. Come on. . . ."  
Harry hesitated for a moment, then  pulled his scarf from around his face 
and, ignoring Ron's gasp, carefully cove red the necklace in it and picked it 
up. 
 
"We'll need to show this to Madam Pomfrey," he said. 
 
As they followed Hermione and Lea nne up the road, Harry was thinking 
furiously. They had just entered the gr ounds when he spoke, unable to keep 
his thoughts to himself any longer. 
 
"Malfoy knows about this necklace. It was in a case at Borgin and Burkes 
four years ago, I saw him having a good look at it while I was hiding from 
him and his dad. This is what he was buying that day when we followed 
him! He remembered it and he went back for it!" , 
 
"I — I dunno, Harry," said Ron hesitant ly. "Loads of people go to Borgin 
and Burkes . . . and didn't that girl say Katie got it in the girls' bathroom?" 
 
"She said she came back from the bath room with it, she didn't necessarily 
get it in the bathroom itself—" 
 
"McGonagall!" said Ron warningly. 
 
Harry looked up. Sure enough, Profe ssor McGonagall was hurrying down 
the stone steps through swirling sleet to meet them. 
 "Hagrid says you four saw what happe ned to Katie Bell — upstairs to my 
office at once, please! What's that you're holding, Potter?" 
 
"It's the thing she touched," said Harry. 
 
"Good lord," said Professor McGonagall,  looking alarmed as she took the 
necklace from Harry. "No, no, Filch, th ey're with me!" she added hastily, as 
Filch came shuffling eagerly across the entrance hall hol ding his Secrecy 
Sensor aloft. "Take this necklace to Professor Snape at once, but be sure not 
to touch it, keep it wrapped in the scarf!" 
 
Harry and the others followed Profe ssor McGonagall upstairs and into her 
office. The sleet-spattered windows we re rattling in their frames, and the 
room was chilly despite the fire crackling in the grate. Professor 
McGonagall closed the door and swept around her desk to face Harry, Ron, 
Hermione, and the still sobbing Leanne. 
 
"Well?" she said sharply. "What happened?" 
 
Haltingly, and with many pauses wh ile she attempted to control her 
crying, Leanne told Professor Mc Gonagall how Katie had gone to the 
bathroom in the Three Broomsticks and returned holding the unmarked 
package, how Katie had seemed a little odd, and how they had argued about 
the advisability of agreeing to deliver unknown objects, the argument 
culminating in the tussle over the par cel, which tore open. At this point, 
Leanne was so overcome, there was no getting another word out of her. 
 "All right," said Professor McGonagall, not unkindly, "go up to the 
hospital wing, please, Leanne, and get Madam Pomfrey to give you 
something for shock." 
 
When she had left the room, Professor McGonagall turned back to Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione. 
 
"What happened when Katie  touched the necklace?" 
 
"She rose up in the air," said Harry, before either Ron or Hermione could 
speak, "and then began to scream, and collapsed. Professor, can I see 
Professor Dumbledore, please?" 
 
"The headmaster is away until Monday, Potter," said Professor 
McGonagall, looking surprised. 
 
"Away?" Harry repeated angrily. 
 
"Yes, Potter, away!" said Professor McGonagall tartly. "But anything you 
have to say about this horrible busin ess can be said to me, I'm sure!" 
 
For a split second, Harry hesitated.  Professor McGonaga ll did not invite 
confidences; Dumbledore, though in many ways more intimidating, still 
seemed less likely to scorn a theory, however wild. This was a life-and-death 
matter, though, and no moment to worry about being laughed at. 
 
"I think Draco Malfoy gave Ka tie that necklace, Professor."  
On one side of him, Ron rubbed hi s nose in apparent embarrassment; on 
the other, Hermione shuffled her feet as though quite keen to put a bit of 
distance between herself and Harry. 
 
"That is a very serious accusation, Potter," said Pro fessor McGonagall, 
after a shocked pause. "Do you have any proof?" 
 
"No," said Harry, "but..." and he to ld her about following Malfoy to 
Borgin and Burkes and the conversation they had over-heard between him 
and Mr. Borgin. 
 
When he had finished speaking, Pro fessor McGonagall looked slightly 
confused. 
 
"Malfoy took something to Borgin and Burkes for repair?" 
 
"No, Professor, he just wanted Borgin to tell him how to mend something, 
he didn't have it with him. But that's not  the point, the thing is that he bought 
something at the same time, and I think it was that necklace —" 
 
"You saw Malfoy leaving the s hop with a similar package?" 
 
"No, Professor, he told Borgin to keep it in the shop for him —" 
 
"But Harry," Hermione interrupted, "Borgin asked him if he wanted to 
take it with him, and Malfoy said no —"  
"Because he didn't want to touch it,  obviously!" said Harry angrily. 
 
"What he actually said was, 'How would I look carrying that down the 
street?'" said Hermione. 
 
"Well, he would look a bit of a prat carrying a necklace," interjected Ron. 
 
"Oh, Ron," said Hermione  despairingly, "it would be all wrapped up, so 
he wouldn't have to touch it, and quite eas y to hide inside a cloak, so nobody 
would see it! I think whatever he rese rved at Borgin and Burkes was noisy 
or bulky, something he knew would draw  attention to him if he carried it 
down the street — and in any case," she pressed on loudly, before Harry 
could interrupt, "I asked Borgin a bout the necklace, don't you remember? 
When I went in to try and find out what Malfoy had asked him to keep, I 
saw it there. And Borgin just told me the price, he didn't say it was already 
sold or anything —" 
 
"Well, you were being really obvious , he realized what you were up to 
within about five seconds, of course  he wasn't going to tell you — anyway, 
Malfoy could've sent off for it since —" 
 
"That's enough!" said Professor McGonagall, as  Hermione opened her 
mouth to retort, looking furious. "Po tter, I appreciate you telling me this, but 
we cannot point the finger of blame at  Mr. Malfoy purely because he visited 
the shop where this necklace might have been purchas ed. The same is 
probably true of hundreds of people —"  
"— that's what I said —" muttered Ron. 
 
"— and in any case, we have put stri ngent security measures in place this 
year. I do not believe that necklace can possibly have en tered this school 
without our knowledge —" 
 
"But —" 
 
"— and what is more," said Professo r McGonagall, with an air of awful 
finality, "Mr. Malfoy was not in Hogsmeade today." 
 
Harry gaped at he r, deflating. 
 
"How do you know, Professor?" 
 
"Because he was doing detention with me. He has now failed to complete 
his Transfiguration homework twice in  a row. So, thank you for telling me 
your suspicions, Potter," she said as sh e marched past them, "but I need to 
go up to the hospital wing now to check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all." 
 
She held open her office door. They had no choice but to file past her 
without another word. 
 
Harry was angry with the other two for siding with McGonagall; 
nevertheless, he felt compelled to join  in once they started discussing what 
had happened.  
"So who do you reckon Ka tie was supposed to gi ve the necklace to?" 
asked Ron, as they climbed th e stairs to the common room. 
 
"Goodness only knows," said Hermione . "But whoever it was has had a 
narrow escape. No one coul d have opened that package without touching the 
necklace." 
 
"It could've been meant for loads of  people," said Harry. "Dumbledore — 
the Death Eaters would love to get rid of him, he must be one of their top 
targets. Or Slughorn — Dumbledore r eckons Voldemort really wanted him 
and they can't be pleased that he 's sided with Dumbledore. Or —" 
 
"Or you," said Hermione, looking troubled. 
 
"Couldn't have been," said Harry, "or Ka tie would've just turned around in 
the lane and given it to me, wouldn't sh e? I was behind her all the way out of 
the Three Broomsticks. It would have ma de much more sense to deliver the 
parcel outside Hogwarts, what with Filch searching everyone who goes in 
and out. I wonder why Malfoy told he r to take it into the castle?" 
 
"Harry, Malfoy wasn't in Hogsmeade! " said Hermione, actually stamping 
her foot in frustration. 
 
"He must have used an accomplice, then," said Harry. "Crabbe or Goyle 
— or, come to think of it, another Deat h Eater, he'll have loads better cronies 
than Crabbe and Goyle now he's joined up —"  
Ron and Hermione exchanged looks th at plainly said There's no point 
arguing with him. 
 
"Dilligrout," said Hermione firmly  as they reached the Fat Lady. 
 
The portrait swung open to admit them  to the common room. It was quite 
full and smelled of damp clothing; ma ny people seemed to have returned 
from Hogsmeade early because of the bad weather. There was no buzz of 
fear or speculation, however: Clearly, the news of Katie's fate had not yet 
spread. 
 
"It wasn't a very slick attack, rea lly, when you stop and think about it," 
said Ron, casually turfing a first year  out of one of the good armchairs by the 
fire so that he could sit down. "The cu rse didn't even make it into the castle. 
Not what you'd call foolproof." 
 
"You're right," said Herm ione, prodding Ron out of the chair with her foot 
and offering it to the first year again. "It wasn't very well thought-out at all." 
 
"But since when has Malfoy been one  of the world's great thinkers?" 
asked Harry. 
 
Neither Ron nor Hermione answered him. 
CHAPTER 13
 
Katie was removed to St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and 
Injuries the following day, by which tim e the news that she had been cursed 
had spread all over the school, though th e details were confused and nobody 
other than Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Leanne seemed to know that Katie 
herself had not been the intended target. 
 
"Oh, and Malfoy knows, of course,"  said Harry to Ron and Hermione, 
who continued their new policy of feigning deafness whenever Harry 
mentioned his Malfoy-Is-a-Death-Eater theory. 
 
Harry had wondered whether Dumbledore would return from wherever he 
had been in time for Monday night's le sson, but having had no word to the 
contrary, he presented himself outside Dumbledore's office at eight o'clock, 
knocked, and was told to enter. Th ere sat Dumbledore looking unusually 
tired; his hand was as black and burned  as ever, but he smiled when he 
gestured to Harry to sit down. The Pe nsieve was sitting on the desk again, 
casting silvery specks of light over the ceiling. 
 
"You have had a busy time while I have been away ," Dumbledore said. "I 
believe you witnessed Katie's accident." 
 
"Yes, sir. How is she?" 
 
"Still very unwell, although she was relatively lucky. She appears to have 
brushed the necklace with the smallest  possible amount of skin; there was a tiny hole in her glove. Ha d she put it on, had she even held it in her ungloved 
hand, she would have died, perhaps in stantly. Luckily Professor Snape was 
able to do enough to prevent a ra pid spread of the curse —" 
 
"Why him?" asked Harry quickly. "Why not Madam Pomfrey?" 
 
"Impertinent," said a soft voice from one of the portraits on the wall, and 
Phineas Nigellus Black, Sirius's great-great-grandfather, raised his head 
from his arms where he ha d appeared to be sleeping. "I would not have 
permitted a student to question the way Hogwarts operated in my day." 
 
"Yes, thank you, Phineas," said Du mbledore quellingly. "Professor Snape 
knows much more about the Dark Arts than Madam Pomfrey, Harry. 
Anyway, the St. Mungo's staff are se nding me hourly reports, and I am 
hopeful that Katie will make a full recovery in time." 
 
"Where were you this weekend, sir? " Harry asked, disregarding a strong 
feeling that he might be pushing his luck, a feeling apparently shared by 
Phineas Nigellus, who hissed softly. 
 
"I would rather not say just now," sa id Dumbledore. "However, I shall tell 
you in due course." 
 
"You will?" said Harry, startled. 
 
"Yes, I expect so," said Dumbledore, withdrawing a fresh bottle of silver 
memories from inside his robes and uncorking it with a prod of his wand.  
"Sir," said Harry tentatively,  "I met Mundungus in Hogsmeade." 
 
"Ah yes, I am already aware that  Mundungus has been treating your 
inheritance with light-fingered contem pt," said Dumbledore, frowning a 
little. "He has gone to ground since you accosted him outside the Three 
Broomsticks; I rather think he dreads f acing me. However, rest assured that 
he will not be making away with any more of Sirius's old possessions." 
 
"That mangy old half-blood has been  stealing Black heirlooms?" said 
Phineas Nigellus, incensed; and he stal ked out of his frame, undoubtedly to 
visit his portrait in number twelve, Grimmauld Place. 
 
"Professor," said Harry, after a shor t pause, "did Professor McGonagall 
tell you what I told her after Katie  got hurt? About Draco Malfoy?" 
 
"She told me of your suspicions, yes," said Dumbledore. 
 
"And do you — ?" 
 
"I shall take all appropriate measur es to investigate anyone who might 
have had a hand in Katie's accident," said Dumbledore. "But what concerns 
me now, Harry, is our lesson." 
 
Harry felt slightly resentful at this: If their lessons were so very important, 
why had there been such a long gap be tween the first and second? However, 
he said no more about Draco Malfoy,  but watched as Dumbledore poured the fresh memories into the Pensieve  and began swirling the stone basin 
once more between his long-fingered hands. 
 
"You will remember, I am sure, that we left the tale of Lord Voldemort's 
beginnings at the point where the handsome Muggle, Tom Riddle, had 
abandoned his witch wife, Me rope, and returned to his family home in Little 
Hangleton. Merope was left alone in London, expecting the baby who would 
one day become Lord Voldemort." 
 
"How do you know she was in London, sir?" 
 
"Because of the evidence of one Car actacus Burke," said Dumbledore, 
"who, by an odd coincidence, helped found the very shop whence came the 
necklace we have just been discussing." 
 
He swilled the contents of the Pensieve as Harry had seen him swill them 
before, much as a gold prospector sift s for gold. Up out of the swirling, 
silvery mass rose a little old man revolving  slowly in the Pensieve, silver as 
a ghost but much more solid, with a that ch of hair that completely covered 
his eyes. 
 
"Yes, we acquired it in curious circ umstances. It was brought in by a 
young witch just before Christmas, oh, many years ago now. She said she 
needed the gold badly, well, that mu ch was obvious. Covered in rags and 
pretty far along . . . Going to have a ba by, see. She said the locket had been 
Slytherin's. Well, we hear that sort of story all the time, 'Oh, this was 
Merlin's, this was, his favorite teapot ,' but when I looked at it, it had his mark all right, and a few simple spells  were enough to tell me the truth. Of 
course, that made it near enough pricel ess. She didn't seem to have any idea 
how much it was worth. Happy to get ten Galleons for it. Best bargain we 
ever made!" 
 
Dumbledore gave the Pensieve an ex tra-vigorous shake and Caractacus 
Burke descended back into the swir ling mass of memory from whence he 
had come. 
 
"He only gave her ten Galleons ?" said Harry indignantly. 
 
"Caractacus Burke was not famed for his generosity," said Dumbledore. 
"So we know that, near the end of he r pregnancy, Merope was alone in 
London and in desperate need of gold, desperate enough to sell her one and 
only valuable possession, the locket th at was one of Marvolo's treasured 
family heirlooms." 
 
"But she could do magic!" said Harry  impatiently. "She could have got 
food and everything for herself by magic, couldn't she?" 
 
"Ah," said Dumbledore, "perhaps she could. But it is my belief—I am 
guessing again, but I am sure I am  right — that when her husband 
abandoned her, Merope stop ped using magic. I do not think that she wanted 
to be a witch any longer. Of course, it is also possible that her unrequited 
love and the attendant desp air sapped her of her powers; that can happen. In 
any case, as you are about to see, Mer ope refused to raise her wand even to 
save her own life."  
"She wouldn't even stay alive for her son?" 
 
Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. "Coul d you possibly be feeling sorry for 
Lord Voldemort?" 
 
"No," said Harry quickly, "but she had a choice, didn't she, not like my 
mother —" 
 
"Your mother had a choice too," said Dumbledore gently. "Yes, Merope 
Riddle chose death in spite of a son w ho needed her, but do not judge her too 
harshly, Harry. She was greatly weak ened by long suffering and she never 
had your mother's courage. And now, if you will stand ..." 
 
"Where are we going?" Harry asked, as Dumbledore joined him at the 
front of the desk. 
 
"This time," said Dumbledore, "we are going to enter my memory. I think 
you will find it both rich in detail and sa tisfyingly accurate. After you, Harry 
..." 
 
Harry bent over the Pensieve; his face broke the cool surface of the 
memory and then he was falling through darkness again. . . . Seconds later, 
his feet hit firm ground; he opened his eyes and found that he and 
Dumbledore were standing in a bus tling, old-fashioned London street. 
 "There I am," said Dumbledore brightly , pointing ahead of them to a tall 
figure crossing the road in front  of a horse-drawn milk cart. 
 
This younger Albus Dumbledore's l ong hair and beard were auburn. 
Having reached their side of the str eet, he strode off along the pavement, 
drawing many curious glances due to the flamboyantly cut suit of plum 
velvet that he was wearing. 
 
"Nice suit, sir," said Harry, before he could stop himself, but Dumbledore 
merely chuckled as they followed his younger self a short distance, finally 
passing through a set of iron gates into a bare courtyard that fronted a rather 
grim, square building surrounded by hi gh railings. He mounted the few steps 
leading to the front door and knocked once. After a moment or two, the door 
was opened by a scruffy girl wearing an apron. 
 
"Good afternoon. I have an appointment with a Mrs. Cole, who, I believe, 
is the matron here?" 
 
"Oh," said the bewildered-looking girl, taking in Dumbledore's eccentric 
appearance. "Um. . . just  a mo' . . . MRS. COLE!" she bellowed over her 
shoulder. 
 
Harry heard a distant voice shouting something in response. The girl 
turned back to Dumbledore. "Come in, she's on 'er way." 
 
Dumbledore stepped into a hallway tile d in black and white; the whole 
place was shabby but spotlessly clean. Harry and the older Dumbledore followed. Before the front door had cl osed behind them, a skinny, harassed-
looking woman came scurrying toward them. She had a sh arp-featured face 
that appeared more anxious than unkind, and she was talking over her 
shoulder to another aproned helper as she walked toward Dumbledore. 
 
". . . and take the iodine upstairs to  Martha, Billy Stubbs has been picking 
his scabs and Eric Whalley's oozing all over his sheets — chicken pox on 
top of everything else," she said to nobody in particular, and then her eyes 
fell upon Dumbledore and she stopped dead in her tracks, looking as 
astonished as if a giraffe ha d just crossed her threshold. 
 
"Good afternoon," said Dumbledore, holding out his hand. Mrs. Cole 
simply gaped. 
 
"My name is Albus Dumbledore. I sent you a letter requesting an 
appointment and you very kindly invited me here today." 
 
Mrs. Cole blinked. Apparently d eciding that Dumbledore was not a 
hallucination, she said feebly, "Oh yes. Well — well th en — you'd better 
come into my room. Yes." 
 
She led Dumbledore into a small room that seemed part sitting room, part 
office. It was as shabby as the ha llway and the furniture was old and 
mismatched. She invited Dumbledore to sit on a rickety chair and seated 
herself behind a cluttered desk, eyeing him nervously. 
 "I am here, as I told you in my letter, to discu ss Tom Riddle and 
arrangements for his future," said Dumbledore. 
 
"Are you family?" asked Mrs. Cole. 
 
"No, I am a teacher," said  Dumbledore. "I have co me to offer Tom a place 
at my school." 
 
"What school's this, then?" 
 
"It is called Hogwarts," said Dumbledore. 
 
"And how come you're interested in Tom?" 
 
"We believe he has qualities we are looking for." 
 
"You mean he's won a scholarship? How can he have done? He's never 
been entered for one." 
 
"Well, his name has been down for our school since birth —" 
 
"Who registered him? His parents?" 
 
There was no doubt that Mrs. Cole was an inconveniently sharp woman. 
Apparently Dumbledore thought so too, for Harry now saw him slip his 
wand out of the pocket of his velvet suit , at the same time picking up a piece 
of perfectly blank paper fro m Mrs. Cole's desktop.  
"Here," said Dumbledore, waving hi s wand once as he passed her the 
piece of paper, "I think this will make everything clear." 
 
Mrs. Cole's eyes slid out of focus and back again as she gazed intently at 
the blank paper for a moment. 
 
"That seems perfectly in order," she said placidly, handing it back. Then 
her eyes fell upon a bottle of gin and two glasses that had certainly not been 
present a few seconds before. 
 
"Er — may I offer you a glass of gin?" she said in an extra-refined voice. 
 
"Thank you very much," said  Dumbledore, beaming. 
 
It soon became clear that Mrs. Cole  was no novice when it came to gin 
drinking. Pouring both of them a ge nerous measure, she drained her own 
glass in one gulp. Smacking her lips frankly, she smiled at Dumbledore for 
the first time, and he didn't hes itate to press his advantage. 
 
"I was wondering whether you could tell me anything of Tom Riddle's 
history? I think he was born here in the orphanage?" 
 
"That's right," said Mrs. Cole, helping herself to more gin. "I remember it 
clear as anything, because I'd just st arted here myself. New Year's Eve and 
bitter cold, snowing, you know. Nasty ni ght. And this girl, not much older 
than I was myself at the time, came staggering up the front steps. Well, she wasn't the first. We took her in, and she had the baby within the hour. And 
she was dead in another hour." 
 
Mrs. Cole nodded impressively and t ook another generous gulp of gin. 
 
"Did she say anything before she died?" asked Dumbledore. "Anything 
about the boy's father, for instance?" 
 
"Now, as it happens, she did," said Mr s. Cole, who seemed to be rather 
enjoying herself now, with the gin in her hand and an eager audience for her 
story. "I remember she said to me, 'I hope he looks like his papa,' and I won't 
lie, she was right to hope it, because sh e was no beauty — and then she told 
me he was to be named Tom, for his father, and Marvolo, for her father — yes, I know, funny name, isn't it? We wondered whether she came from a 
circus — and she said the boy's surn ame was to be Riddle. And she died 
soon after that without another word. 
 
"Well, we named him just as she'd said , it seemed so important to the poor 
girl, but no Tom nor Marvolo nor any kind of Riddle ever came looking for 
him, nor any family at all, so he stay ed in the orphanage and he's been here 
ever since." 
 
Mrs. Cole helped herself, almost absentmindedly, to another healthy 
measure of gin. Two pink spots had appeared high on her cheekbones. Then 
she said, "He's a funny boy." 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore. "I thought he might be."  
"He was a funny baby too. He hardly  ever cried, you know. And then, 
when he got a little older, he was. . . odd." 
 
"Odd in what way?" asked Dumbledore gently. 
 
"Well, he —" 
 
But Mrs. Cole pulled up short, and there was nothing blurry or vague 
about the inquisitorial glance she shot Dumbledore over her gin glass. 
 
"He's definitely got a plac e at your school, you say?" 
 
"Definitely," said Dumbledore. 
 
"And nothing I say can change that?" 
 
"Nothing," said Dumbledore. 
 
"You'll be taking him away, whatever?" 
 
"Whatever," repeated Dumbledore gravely. 
 
She squinted at him as though deciding whether or not to trust him. 
Apparently she decided she could, b ecause she said in a sudden rush, "He 
scares the other children." 
 "You mean he is a bully?" asked Dumbledore. 
 
"I think he must be," said Mrs. Cole , frowning slightly, "but it's very hard 
to catch him at it. There have been  incidents. . . . Nasty things ..." 
 
Dumbledore did not press her, thou gh Harry could tell that he was 
interested. She took yet another gulp of gin and her rosy cheeks grew rosier 
still. 
 
"Billy Stubbs's rabbit. . . well, Tom sa id he didn't do it and I don't see how 
he could have done, but even so, it didn' t hang itself from the rafters, did it?" 
 
"I shouldn't think so, no, " said Dumbledore quietly. 
 
"But I'm jiggered if I know how he got up there to do it. All I know is he 
and Billy had argued the day before. And then" — Mrs. Cole took another 
swig of gin, slopping a little over her chin this  time — "on the summer 
outing — we take them out, you know, on ce a year, to the countryside or to 
the seaside — well, Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop were never quite right 
afterwards, and all we ever got out of them was that they'd gone into a cave 
with Tom Riddle. He swore they'd just gone exploring, but something 
happened in there, I'm sure of it. And, well, there ha ve been a lot of things, 
funny things. . . ." 
 
She looked around at Dumbledore ag ain, and though her cheeks were 
flushed, her gaze was steady. "I don't think many people will be sorry to see 
the back of him."  
"You understand, I'm sure, that we w ill not be keeping him permanently?" 
said Dumbledore. "He will have to retu rn here, at the very least, every 
summer." 
 
"Oh, well, that's better  than a whack on the nose with a rusty poker," said 
Mrs. Cole with a slight hiccup. She got  to her feet, and Harry was impressed 
to see that she was quite steady, even  though two-thirds of the gin was now 
gone. "I suppose you'd like to see him?" 
 
"Very much," said Dumbledore, rising too. 
 
She led him out of her office and up the stone stairs, calling out 
instructions and admonitions to help ers and children as she passed. The 
orphans, Harry saw, were all wearing the same kind of grayish tunic. They 
looked reasonably well-cared for, but there was no denying that this was a 
grim place in which to grow up. 
 
"Here we are," said Mrs.  Cole, as they turned off the second landing and 
stopped outside the first door in a long corridor. She knocked twice and entered. 
 
"Tom? You've got a visitor. This is  Mr. Dumberton — sorry, Dunderbore. 
He's come to tell you — well, I'll let him do it." 
 
Harry and the two Dumbledores entered the room, and Mrs. Cole closed 
the door on them. It was a small bare room with nothing in it except an old wardrobe and an iron bedstead. A boy was sitting on top of the gray 
blankets, his legs stretched out in front of him, holding a book. 
 
There was no trace of the Gaunts in Tom Riddle's face. Merope had got 
her dying wish: He was his handsome fath er in miniature, tall for eleven 
years old, dark-haired, and pale. His ey es narrowed slightly as he took in 
Dumbledore's eccentric appearance. There was a moment's silence. 
 
"How do you do, Tom?" said Dumble dore, walking forward and holding 
out his hand. 
 
The boy hesitated, then took it, and they shook hands. Dumbledore drew 
up the hard wooden chair beside Riddle, so that the pair of them looked rather like a hospital patient and visitor. 
 
"I am Professor Dumbledore." 
 
"'Professor'?" repeated Riddle. He looked wary. "Is that like 'doctor'? 
What are you here for? Did she ge t you in to have a look at me?" 
 
He was pointing at the door through which Mrs. Cole had just left. 
 
"No, no," said Dumbledore, smiling. 
 
"I don't believe you," said Riddle. "S he wants me looked at, doesn't she? 
Tell the truth!" 
 He spoke the last three words with  a ringing force that was almost 
shocking. It was a command, and it s ounded as though he had given it many 
times before. His eyes had widened a nd he was glaring at Dumbledore, who 
made no response except to continue sm iling pleasantly. After a few seconds 
Riddle stopped glaring, though he l ooked, if anything, warier still. 
 
"Who are you?" 
 
"I have told you. My name is Professor Dumbledore and I work at a 
school called Hogwarts. I have come to offer you a place at my school — 
your new school, if you would like to come." 
 
Riddle's reaction to this was most surprising. He leapt from the bed and 
backed away from Dumbledore, looking furious. 
 
"You can't kid me! The asylum, that's where you're from, isn't it? 
'Professor,' yes, of course — well, I'm not going, see? That old cat's the one 
who should be in the asylum. I never did anything to little Amy Benson or 
Dennis Bishop, and you can ask them, they'll tell you! 
 
"I am not from the asylum," said Du mbledore patiently. "I am a teacher 
and, if you will sit down calmly, I sh all tell you about Hogwarts. Of course, 
if you would rather not come to  the school, nobody will force you —" 
 
"I'd like to see them try," sneered Riddle. 
 "Hogwarts," Dumbledore went on, as  though he had not heard Riddle's 
last words, "is a school for pe ople with special abilities —" 
 
"I'm not mad!" 
 
"I know that you are not mad. Hogwarts  is not a school for mad people. It 
is a school of magic." 
 
There was silence. Riddle had frozen, his face expressionless, but his eyes 
were flickering back and forth betwee n each of Dumbledore's, as though 
trying to catch one of them lying. 
 
"Magic?" he repeated in a whisper. 
 
"That's right," said Dumbledore. 
 
"It's. . . it's magic, what I can do?" 
 
"What is it that you can do?" 
 
"All sorts," breathed Riddle. A flush of excitement was rising up his neck 
into his hollow cheeks; he looked fevere d. "I can make f ilings move without 
touching them. I can make animals do what I want them to do, without 
training them. I can make bad things  happen to people who annoy me. I can 
make them hurt if I want to." 
 His legs were trembling. He stumbl ed forward and sat down on the bed 
again, staring at his hands, his head bowed as though in prayer. 
 
"I knew I was different," he whispere d to his own quivering fingers. "I 
knew I was special. Always, I knew there was something." 
 
"Well, you were quite right," sa id Dumbledore, who was no longer 
smiling, but watching Riddle intently. "You are a wizard." 
 
Riddle lifted his head. His face wa s transfigured: There was a wild 
happiness upon it, yet for some reason it di d not make him better looking; on 
the contrary, his finely carved feat ures seemed somehow rougher, his 
expression almost bestial. 
 
"Are you a wizard too?" 
 
"Yes, I am." 
 
"Prove it," said Riddle at once, in th e same commanding tone he had used 
when he had said, "Tell the truth." 
 
Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. "If, as I take it, you are accepting your 
place at Hogwarts—" 
 
"Of course I am!" 
 
"Then you will address me as  'Professor' or 'sir.'"  
Riddle's expression harden ed for the most fleeting moment before he said, 
in an unrecognizably polite voice, "I'm sorry, sir. I meant — please, 
Professor, could you show me — ?" 
 
Harry was sure that Dumbledore was going to refuse, that he would tell 
Riddle there would be plenty of time for practical demonstrations at Hogwarts, that they were currently in  a building full of Muggles and must 
therefore be cautious. To his great su rprise, however, Dumbledore drew his 
wand from an inside pocket of his suit jacket, pointed it at the shabby 
wardrobe in the corner, and ga ve the wand a casual flick. 
 
The wardrobe burst into flames. 
 
Riddle jumped to his feet; Harry c ould hardly blame him for howling in 
shock and rage; all his worldly possessions  must be in there. But even as 
Riddle rounded on Dumbledore, the flam es vanished, leaving the wardrobe 
completely undamaged. 
 
Riddle stared from the wardrobe to Dumbledore; then, his expression 
greedy, he pointed at the wand. "Where can I get one of them?" 
 
"All in good time," said Dumbledore. "I think there is something trying to 
get out of your wardrobe." 
 
And sure enough, a faint rattling could be heard from inside it. For the 
first time, Riddle looked frightened.  
"Open the door," said Dumbledore. 
 
Riddle hesitated, then crossed the room and threw open the wardrobe 
door. On the topmost shelf, above a ra il of threadbare clothes, a small 
cardboard box was shaking and rattling as  though there were several frantic 
mice trapped inside it. 
 
"Take it out," said Dumbledore. 
 
Riddle took down the quaking box. He looked unnerved. 
 
"Is there anything in that box that you ought not to have?" asked 
Dumbledore. 
 
Riddle threw Dumbledore a long, clear , calculating look. "Yes, I suppose 
so, sir," he said finally, in an expressionless voice. 
 
"Open it," said Dumbledore. 
 
Riddle took off the lid and tipped th e contents onto his bed without 
looking at them. Harry, who had expect ed something much more exciting, 
saw a mess of small, everyday objects:  a yo-yo, a silver  thimble, and a 
tarnished mouth organ among them. On ce free of the box, they stopped 
quivering and lay quite s till upon the thin blankets. 
 "You will return them to their owne rs with your apologies," said 
Dumbledore calmly, putting his wand back  into his jacket. "I shall know 
whether it has been done. And be warn ed: Thieving is not tolerated at 
Hogwarts." 
 
Riddle did not look remotely abashed; he was still staring coldly and 
appraisingly at Dumbledore. At last he  said in a colorless voice, "Yes, sir." 
 
"At Hogwarts," Dumbledore went on, "we teach you not only to use 
magic, but to control it. You have — inadvertently, I am sure — been using 
your powers in a way that is neither taught nor tolerated at our school. You 
are not the first, nor will you be the la st, to allow your magic to run away 
with you. But you should know that H ogwarts can expel students, and the 
Ministry of Magic — yes, there is a Mi nistry — will punish lawbreakers still 
more severely. All new wizards must acce pt that, in entering our world, they 
abide by our laws." 
 
"Yes, sir," said Riddle again. 
 
It was impossible to tell what he wa s thinking; his face remained quite 
blank as he put the little cache of stol en objects back into the cardboard box. 
When he had finished, he turned to Dumbledore and said baldly, "I haven't 
got any money." 
 
"That is easily remedied," said Dumbledore, drawing a leather money-
pouch from his pocket. "There is a fund at Hogwarts for those who require assistance to buy books and robes. You might have  to buy some of your 
spellbooks and so on secondhand, but —" 
 
"Where do you buy spellbooks?" inte rrupted Riddle, who had taken the 
heavy money bag without thanking Du mbledore, and was now examining a 
fat gold Galleon, 
 
"In Diagon Alley," said Dumbledore. "I have your list of books and 
school equipment with me. I can help you find everything —" 
 
"You're coming with me?" asked Riddle, looking up. 
 
"Certainly, if you —" 
 
"I don't need you," said Riddle. "I'm used to doing things for myself, I go 
round London on my own all the time. How do you get to this Diagon Alley 
— sir?" he added, catching Dumbledore's eye. 
 
Harry thought that Dumbledore would insist upon accompanying Riddle, 
but once again he was surprised. Du mbledore handed Riddle the envelope 
containing his list of equipment, and after telling Riddle exactly how to get 
to the Leaky Cauldron from the orphanage , he said, "You will be able to see 
it, although Muggles around you — non-magi cal people, that is — will not. 
Ask for Tom the barman — easy enoug h to remember, as he shares your 
name —" 
 Riddle gave an irritable twitch, as though trying to displace an irksome 
fly. 
 
"You dislike the name 'Tom'?" 
 
"There are a lot of Toms," muttered Ri ddle. Then, as though he could not 
suppress the question, as though it burst from him in spite of himself, he 
asked, "Was my father a wizard? He was called Tom Riddle too, they've told 
me." 
 
"I'm afraid I don't know," said  Dumbledore, his voice gentle. 
 
"My mother can't have been magic, or she wouldn't have died," said 
Riddle, more to himself than Dumbledor e. "It must've been him. So — when 
I've got all my stuff— when do  I come to this Hogwarts?" 
 
"All the details are on the second piece of parchment in your envelope," 
said Dumbledore. "You will leave from Ki ng's Cross Station on the first of 
September. There is a tr ain ticket in there too." 
 
Riddle nodded. Dumbledore got to his feet and held out his hand again. 
Taking it, Riddle said, "I can speak to snakes. I found out when we've been 
to the country on trips — they find me, they whisper to me. Is that normal 
for a wizard?" 
 
Harry could tell that he had withheld mention of this strangest power until 
that moment, determined to impress.  
"It is unusual," said Dumbledore, af ter a moment's hesitation, "but not 
unheard of." 
 
His tone was casual but his eyes move d curiously over Riddle's face. They 
stood for a moment, man and boy, staring at each other. Then the handshake 
was broken; Dumbledore was at the door. 
 
"Good-bye, Tom. I shall see you at Hogwarts." 
 
"I think that will do," said the white -haired Dumbledore at Harry's side, 
and seconds later, they were soar ing weightlessly th rough darkness once 
more, before landing squarely in the present-day office. 
 
"Sit down," said Dumbledor e, landing beside Harry. 
 
Harry obeyed, his mind still full of what he had just seen. 
 
"He believed it much quicker than I di d — I mean, when you told him he 
was a wizard," said Harry. "I  didn't believe Hagrid at first, when he told me." 
 
"Yes, Riddle was perfectly ready to be lieve that he was — to use his word 
— 'special,'" said Dumbledore. 
 
"Did you know — then?" asked Harry. 
 "Did I know that I had just met the most dangerous Dark wizard of all 
time?" said Dumbledore. "No, I had no idea that he was to grow up to be 
what he is. However, I was certainly intrigued by him. I returned to 
Hogwarts intending to keep an eye upon him, something I should have done 
in any case, given that he was alone and friendless, but which, already, I felt 
I ought to do for others' sa ke as much as his. 
 
"His powers, as you heard, were surprisingly well-developed for such a 
young wizard and — most interestingl y and ominously of all — he had 
already discovered that he had some measure of control over them, and 
begun to use them consciously. And as  you saw, they were not the random 
experiments typical of young wizards: He was already using magic against 
other people, to frighten, to punish, to control. The little stories of the strangled rabbit and the young boy and girl he lured into a cave were most 
suggestive. . . . 'I can make th em hurt if I want to. . . .'" 
 
"And he was a Parselmout h," interjected Harry. 
 
"Yes, indeed; a rare ability, and one s upposedly connected with the Dark 
Arts, although as we know, there are Pa rselmouths among the great and the 
good too. In fact, his ability to speak to serpents did not make me nearly as uneasy as his obvious instincts fo r cruelty, secrecy, and domination. 
 
"Time is making fools of us again," said Dumbledore, indicating the dark 
sky beyond the windows. "But before we  part, I want to draw your attention 
to certain features of the scene we have just witnesse d, for they have a great 
bearing on the matters we shall be discussing in future meetings.  
"Firstly, I hope you noticed Riddle's reaction when I mentioned that 
another shared his first name, 'Tom'?" 
 
Harry nodded. 
 
"There he showed his contempt for a nything that tied him to other people, 
anything that made him ordinary. Even  then, he wished to be different, 
separate, notorious. He shed his name , as you know, within a few short years 
of that conversation and created the ma sk of ‘Lord Voldemort' behind which 
he has been hidden for so long. 
 
"I trust that you also noticed that Tom Riddle was already highly self-
sufficient, secretive, and, apparently, friendless? He did not want help or 
companionship on his trip to Diagon A lley. He preferred to operate alone. 
The adult Voldemort is the same. You will hear many of his Death Eaters 
claiming that they are in his confidence,  that they alone are close to him, 
even understand him. They are delude d. Lord Voldemort has never had a 
friend, nor do I believe that  he has ever wanted one. 
 
"And lastly — I hope you are not too slee py to pay attention to this, Harry 
— the young Tom Riddle liked to collect trophies. You saw the box of 
stolen articles he had hidden in his room. These were taken from victims of 
his bullying behavior, souvenirs, if you will, of particularly unpleasant bits of magic. Bear in mind this magpie-like tendency, for this, particularly, will 
be important later. 
 "And now, it really is time for bed." 
 
Harry got to his feet. As he walked  across the room, his eyes fell I upon 
the little table on which Marvolo Gaunt's ring had rested last I time, but the 
ring was no longer there. 
 
"Yes, Harry?" said Dumbledore, for Harry had come to a halt. 
  
"The ring's gone," said Harry, looki ng around. "But I thought I you might 
have the mouth organ or something." 
 
Dumbledore beamed at him, peering over the top of his halfw moon 
spectacles. 
 
"Very astute, Harry, but the mouth or gan was only ever a mouth organ." 
 
And on that enigmatic note he waved to Harry, who understood himself to 
be dismissed. 
CHAPTER 14
 
Harry had Herbology first thing the following morning. He had been 
unable to tell Ron and Hermione a bout his lesson with Dumbledore over 
breakfast for fear of being over-heard, but he filled them in as they walked 
across the vegetable patch toward th e greenhouses. The weekend’s brutal 
wind had died out at last; the weird mist had returned and it took them a 
little longer than usual to find the correct greenhouse. 
 
"Wow, scary thought, the boy You-Know-Who," said Ron qui-etly, as 
they took their places around one of the gnarled Snargaluff stumps that 
formed this terms project, and began pulling on their protective gloves. "But 
I still don't get why Dumbledore's showing you all this. I mean, it's really interesting and everything, but what's the point?" 
 
"Dunno," said Harry, inserting a gum shie ld. "But he says its all important 
and it'll help me survive." 
 
"I think it's fascinating," said He rmione earnestly. "It makes absolute 
sense to know as much about Voldem ort as possible. How else will you find 
out his weaknesses?" 
 
"So how was Slughorn's latest party?" Harry asked her thickly through the 
gum shield. 
 
"Oh, it was quite fun, really," sa id Hermione, now putting on protective 
goggles. "I mean, he dr ones on about famous exploits a bit, and he absolutely fawns on McLaggen because he's so well connected, but he gave 
us some really nice food and he introduced us to Gwenog Jones." 
 
"Gwenog Jones?" said Ron, his eyes widening under his own goggles. 
"The Gwenog Jones? Captain of the Holyhead Harpies?" 
 
"That's right," said Hermi one. "Personally, I though t she was a bit full of 
herself, but —" 
 
"Quite enough chat over here!" said Professor Sprout briskly, bustling 
over and looking stern. "You're lagging behind, everybody else has started, 
and Neville's already got his first pod!" 
 
They looked around; sure enough, ther e sat Neville with a bloody lip and 
several nasty scratches along the side of his face, but clutching an 
unpleasantly pulsating green object a bout the size of a grapefruit. 
 
"Okay, Professor, we're starting now!" said Ron, adding quietly, when she 
had turned away again, "should ve used Muffliato, Harry." 
 
"No, we shouldn't!" said Hermione at  once, looking, as she always did, 
intensely cross at the thought of the Half-Blood Prince and his spells. "Well, 
come on ... we'd better get going. ..." 
 
She gave the other two an apprehensi ve look; they all took deep breaths 
and then dived at the gnarled stump between them. 
 It sprang to life at once; long, prickl y, bramblelike vines flew out of the 
top and whipped through the air. One ta ngled itself in Hermione's hair, and 
Ron beat it back with a pair of s ecateurs; Harry succeeded in trapping a 
couple of vines and knotting them toge ther; a hole opened in the middle of 
all the tentaclelike branches; Hermione plunged her arm bravely into this 
hole, which closed like a trap aroun d her elbow; Harry and Ron tugged and 
wrenched at the vines, forcing the hole to open again, and Hermi-one 
snatched her arm free, clutching in he r fingers a pod just like Neville's. At 
once, the prickly vines shot back in side, and the gnarled stump sat there 
looking like an innocently dead lump of wood. 
 
"You know, I don't think I'll be having a ny of these in my garden when 
I've got my own place," said Ron, pushi ng his goggles up onto his forehead 
and wiping sweat from his face. 
 
"Pass me a bowl," said Hermione, holding the pulsating pod at arm's 
length; Harry handed one ove r and she dropped the pod into it with a look of 
disgust on her face. 
 
"Don't be squeamish, squeeze it out, they're best when they're fresh!" 
called Professor Sprout. 
 
"Anyway," said Hermione, continuing their interrupted conver-sation as 
though a lump of wood had not just attacked them, "Slughorn's going to have a Christmas party, Harry, and th ere's no way you'll be able to wriggle 
out of this one because he actually as ked me to check your free evenings, so 
he could be sure to have it on a night you can come."  
Harry groaned. Meanwhile, Ron, who was attempting to burst the pod in 
the bowl by putting both hands on it, sta nding up, and squashing it as hard as 
he could, said angrily, "And this is  another party just for Slughorn's 
favorites, is it?" 
 
"Just for the Slug Club, yes," said Hermione. 
 
The pod flew out from under Ron's fingers and hit the green house glass, 
rebounding onto the back of Professor Sprout's head and knocking off her 
old, patched hat. Harry went to retrieve the pod; when he got back, 
Hermione was saying, "L ook, I didn't make up the name 'Slug Club' —" 
 
"'Slug Club,'"repeated Ron with a sneer  worthy of Malfoy. "It's pathetic. 
Well, I hope you enjoy your party. Why don't you try hooking up with 
McLaggen, then Slughorn can make you King and Queen Slug —" 
 
"We're allowed to bring guests," said  Hermione, who for some reason had 
turned a bright, boiling scarlet, "and I was going to ask you to come, but if you think it's that stupid then I won't bother!" 
 
Harry suddenly wished the pod had flown a little farther, so that he need 
not have been sitting here with the pa ir of them. Unno-ticed by either, he 
seized the bowl that contained the pod and be-gan to try and open it by the 
noisiest and most energetic means he c ould think of; unfortunately, he could 
still hear every word of their conversation. 
 "You were going to ask me?" asked Ron,  in a completely differ-ent voice. 
 
"Yes," said Hermione a ngrily. "But obviously if you'd rather 1 hooked up 
with McLaggen ..." 
 
There was a pause while Harry conti nued to pound the resilient pod with a 
trowel. 
 
"No, I wouldn't," said Ron,  in a very quiet voice. 
 
Harry missed the pod, hit th e bowl, and shattered it. 
 
‘"Reparo,"' he said hastily, poking the pieces with his wand, and the bowl 
sprang back together again. The cras h, however, appeared to have awoken 
Ron and Hermione to Harry's presen ce. Hermione looked flustered and 
immediately started fussing about for he r copy of “Flesh-Eating Trees of the 
World” to find out the correct way to  juice Snargaluff pods; Ron, on the 
other hand, looked sheepish but also rather pleased with himself. 
 
"Hand that over, Harry," said Hermione hurriedly. "It says we're supposed 
to puncture them with something sharp. . . ." 
 
Harry passed her the pod in the bowl; he and Ron both  snapped their 
goggles back over their eyes and dived, once more, for the stump. It was not 
as though he was really surprised, thought Harry, as he wrestled with a 
thorny vine intent upon throttling him; he  had had an inkling that this might 
happen sooner or later. But he was not sure how he felt about it. ... He and Cho were now too em-barrassed to look at each other,  let alone talk to each 
other; what if Ron and Hermione star ted going out together, then split up? 
Could their friendship survive it? Ha rry remembered the few weeks when 
they had not been talking to each other in the third year; he had not enjoyed 
trying to bridge the distance between them. And then, what if they didn't 
split up? What if they became like Bill and Fleur, and it became 
excruciatingly embarrassing to be in thei r presence, so that he was shut out 
for good? 
 
"Gotcha!" yelled Ron, pulling a s econd pod from the stump just as 
Hermione managed to  burst the first one open, so that the bowl was full of 
tubers wriggling like pale green worms. 
 
The rest of the lesson passed without further mention of Slughorn's party. 
Although Harry watched his two friends  more closely over the next few 
days, Ron and Hermione di d not seem any different except that they were a 
little politer to each other than usual. Ha rry supposed he would just have to 
wait to see what 
 
happened under the influence of butte rbeer in Slughorn's dimly lit room 
on the night of the party. In the mean time, however, he had more pressing 
worries. 
 
Katie Bell was still in St. Mungo's Hosp ital with no prospect of leaving, 
which meant that the promising Gryffind or team Harry had been training so 
carefully since September was one Ch aser short. He kept putting off 
replacing Katie in the hope that she would return, but their opening match against Slytherin was loom-ing, and he  finally had to accept that she would 
not be back in time to play. 
 
Harry did not think he could sta nd another full-House tryout. With a 
sinking feeling that had little to do w ith Quidditch, he cor-nered Dean 
Thomas after Transfiguration one day. Most of the class had already left, 
although several twittering yellow birds were still zooming around the room, 
all of Hermione's creation; nobody else had succeeded in conjuring so much 
as a feather from thin air. 
 
"Are you still interested in playing Chaser?" 
 
"Wha — ? Yeah, of course!" said Dean  excitedly. Over Dean’s shoulder, 
Harry saw Seamus Finnegan slamming his books into his bag, looking sour. 
One of the reasons why Harry would have pre-ferred not to have to ask Dean 
to play was that he knew Seamus would not like it. On the other hand, he 
had to do what was best for the team, and Dean had outflown Seamus at the 
tryouts. 
 
"Well then, you're in," said Harry. "There's a practice tonight, seven 
o'clock." 
 
"Right," said Dean. "Cheers, Harry! Blimey, I can't wait to tell Ginny!" 
 
He sprinted out of the room, leaving Harry and Seamus alone together, an 
uncomfortable moment made no easie r when a bird dropping landed on 
Seamus's head as one of Hermi one's canaries whizzed over them.  
Seamus was not the only person disgru ntled by the choice of Katie’s 
substitute. There was much muttering in the common room about the fact 
that Harry had now chosen two of his class-mates for the team. As Harry had 
endured much worse mutterings than th is in his school career, he was not 
particularly bothered, but all the sa me, the pressure was increasing to 
provide a win in the upcoming match ag ainst Slytherin. If Gryffindor won, 
Harry knew that the whole House would forget that they had criticized him 
and swear that they had always known it was a great team. If they lost. . . 
well, Harry thought wryl y, he had still endured worse mutterings. . . . 
 
Harry had no reason to regret his choice once he saw Dean fly that 
evening; he worked well with Ginny an d Demelza. The Beat ers, Peakes and 
Coote, were getting better all the time. The only problem was Ron. 
 
Harry had known all along that Ron was an inconsistent player who 
suffered from nerves and a lack of confidence, and unfortu-nately, the 
looming prospect of the opening game of the season seemed to have brought 
out all his old insecurities. After letting in half a dozen goals, most of them 
scored by Ginny, his technique became wilder and wilder, until he finally 
punched an oncoming Demelza Robins in the mouth. 
 
"It was an accident, I'm sorry, Demelza, really sorry!" Ron shouted after 
her as she zigzagged back to the gr ound, dripping blood everywhere. "I just 
—" 
 "Panicked," Ginny said angrily, landi ng next to Demelza and examining 
her fat lip. "You prat, Ron, look at the state of her!" 
 
"I can fix that," said Harry, landing be side the two girls, pointing his wand 
at Demelzas mouth, and saying "Epi skey." "And Ginny, don't call Ron a 
prat, you're not the Captain of this team —" 
 
"Well, you seemed too busy to call him a prat and I thought someone 
should —" 
 
Harry forced himself not to laugh. 
 
"In the air, everyone, let's go. . . ." 
 
Overall it was one of the worst prac tices they had had all term, though 
Harry did not feel that honesty was the best policy when they were this close 
to the match. 
 
"Good work, everyone, I think we'll flatten Slytherin," he said bracingly, 
and the Chasers and Beaters left the changing room looking reasonably 
happy with themselves. 
 
"I played like a sack of dragon dung," said Ron in a hollow voice when 
the door had swung shut behind Ginny. 
 
"No, you didn't," said Harry firmly. "Y ou're the best Keeper I tried out, 
Ron. Your only problem is nerves."  
He kept up a relentless flow of enc ouragement all the way back to the 
castle, and by the time they reached the second floor, Ron was looking 
marginally more cheerful. When Harry pu shed open the tapestry to take their 
usual shortcut up to Gryffindor Towe r, however, they found themselves 
looking at Dean and Ginny, who were lo cked in a close embrace and kissing 
fiercely as though glued together. 
 
It was as though something large and scaly erupted into life in Harry's 
stomach, clawing at his insides: Hot bloo d seemed to flood his brain, so that 
all thought was extinguished, replaced by a savage urge to jinx Dean into a 
jelly. Wrestling with this sudden ma dness, he heard Ron's voice as though 
from a great distance away. 
 
“Oi!” 
 
Dean and Ginny broke apart and l ooked around. "What?" said Ginny. 
 
"I don't want to find my own sister  snogging people in public!" "This was 
a deserted corridor till you came butting in!" said Ginny. 
 
Dean was looking embarrassed.  He gave Harry a shifty grin that Harry did 
not return, as the newborn monster inside him was roar-ing for Dean's 
instant dismissal from the team. 
 
"Er . . . c'mon, Ginny," said Dean, "let 's go back to the common room. ..." 
 "You go!" said Ginny. "I want a word with my dear brother!" Dean left, 
looking as though he was not sorry to depart the scene. 
 
"Right," said Ginny, tossing her long red hair out of her face and glaring 
at Ron, "let's get this straight once and for all. It is none of your business 
who I go out with or what I do with th em, Ron —" "Yeah, it is!" said Ron, 
just as angrily. "D' you think I want  peo-ple saying my sister's a —" 
 
"A what?" shouted Ginny, drawing her wand. "A what, exactly?" "He 
doesn't mean anything, Ginny —" sa id Harry automati-cally, though the 
monster was roaring its approval of Ron' s words. "Oh yes he does!" she said, 
flaring up at Harry. "Just because he's never snogged anyone in his life, just 
because the best kiss he's ever had is from our Auntie Muriel —" 
 
"Shut your mouth!" bellowed Ron, bypassing red and turning maroon. 
 
"No, I will not!" yelled Ginny, beside  herself. "I've seen you with Phlegm, 
hoping she'll kiss you on the cheek every time you see her, it's pathetic! If 
you went out and got a bit of snogging done your se lf, you wouldn't mind so 
much that everyone else does it!" 
 
Ron had pulled out his wand too; Harry stepped swiftly between them. 
 
"You don't know what you're talking ab out!" Ron roared, trying to get a 
clear shot at Ginny around Harry, who was now standing in front of her with 
his arms outstretched. "Just because I don't do it in public — !" 
 Ginny screamed with derisive laughter , trying to push Harry out of the 
way. 
 
"Been kissing Pigwidgeon, have you? Or have you got a picture of Auntie 
Muriel stashed under your pillow?" You — 
 
A streak of orange light flew unde r Harrys left arm and missed Ginny by 
inches; Harry pushed Ron up against the wall. 
 
"Don't be stupid —" 
 
"Harry's snogged Cho Chang!" shouted  Ginny, who sounded close to tears 
now. "And Hermione snogged Viktor Krum, it's only you who acts like it's 
something disgusting, Ron, and that's  because you've got about as much 
experience as a twelve-year-old!" 
 
And with that, she stormed away. Harry  quickly let go of Ron; the look on 
his face was murderous. They both st ood there, breath-ing heavily, until 
Mrs. Norris, Rich's cat, appeared  around the cor-ner, which broke the 
tension. 
 
"C'mon," said Harry, as the sound of Fi lch's shuffling feet reached their 
ears. 
 
They hurried up the stairs and along a seventh-floor corridor. "Oi, out of 
the way!" Ron barked at a small girl  who jumped in fright and dropped a 
bottle of toadspawn.  
Harry hardly noticed the sound of shattering glass; he felt dis-oriented, 
dizzy; being struck by a lightning bolt must  be something like this. It's just 
because she's Ron’s sister, he told hi mself. You just didn't like seeing her 
kissing Dean because she's Ron's sister. . . . 
 
But unbidden into his mind came an im age of that same de-serted corridor 
with himself kissing Ginny instead. . . . The mon-ster in his chest purred . . . 
but then he saw Ron ripping open the tapestry curtain and drawing his wand 
on Harry, shouting things like "betrayal of trust" . . . "supposed to be my 
friend" . . . 
 
"D'you think Hermione did snog Krum?" Ron asked abruptly, as they 
approached the Fat Lady. Harry gave  a guilty start and wrenched his 
imagination away from a corridor in wh ich no Ron intruded, in which he and 
Ginny were quite alone — "W hat?" he said confusedly. "Oh ... er ..." The 
honest answer was "yes," but he did not want to give it. However, Ron 
seemed to gather the worst from the look on Harry's face. 
 
"Dilligrout," he said darkly to the Fa t Lady, and they climbed through the 
portrait hole into the common room. 
 
Neither of them mentioned Ginny or He rmione again; indeed, they barely 
spoke to each other that evening and got  into bed in si-lence, each absorbed 
in his own thoughts, 
 Harry lay awake for a long time, looking up at the canopy of his four-
poster and trying to convince himself that his feelings for Ginny were 
entirely elder-brotherly. They had lived, had they not, like brother and sister 
all summer, playing Quidditch, teas ing Ron, and havi ng a laugh about Bill 
and Phlegm? He had known Ginny for years now. ... It was natural that he 
should feel protective . . . natural that he should want to look out for her . . . 
want to rip Dean limb from limb for ki ssing her... No ... he would have to 
control that particular brotherly feeling. . . . 
 
Ron gave a great grunting snore. 
 
She's Ron's sister, Harry told himself firmly. Ron's sister. She's out-of-
bounds. He would not risk his friendship with Ron for anything. He punched 
his pillow into a more comfortable shape and waited for sleep to come, 
trying his utmost not to allow his t houghts to stray anywhere near Ginny. 
 
Harry awoke next morning feeling slig htly dazed and confused by a series 
of dreams in which Ron had chased him with a Beater’s bat, but by midday 
he would have happily ex changed the dream Ron for the real one, who was 
not only cold-shouldering Ginny and Dean, but also treating a hurt and 
bewildered Hermione with an icy, sneering indifference. What was more, 
Ron seemed to have become, overnight, as touchy and ready to lash out as 
the average Blast-Ended Skrewt. Harry spent the day attempting to keep the 
peace between Ron and Hermione wi th no success; finally, Hermione 
departed for bed in high dudgeon, and Ron stalked o ff to the boys' dormitory 
after swearing angrily at several frightened first years for looking at him. 
 To Harry’s dismay, Ron's new aggressi on did not wear off over the next 
few days. Worse still, it coincided with an even deeper dip in his Keeping 
skills, which made him still more aggr essive, so that during the final 
Quidditch practice before Saturdays matc h, he failed to save every single 
goal the Chasers aimed at him, but be llowed at everybody so much that he 
reduced Demelza Robins to tears. 
 
"You shut up and leave her alone!" shouted Peakes, who was about two-
thirds Ron's height, though admittedly carrying a heavy bat. 
 
"ENOUGH!" bellowed Harry, who had seen Ginny glowering in Ron’s 
direction and, remembering her reputatio n as an accom-plished caster of the 
Bat-Bogey Hex, soared over to interven e be-fore things got out of hand. 
"Peakes, go and pack up the Bludgers. Demelza, pull yourself together, you 
played really well today, Ron . . ." he waited until the rest of the team were 
out of earshot before saying it, "you're  my best mate, but carry on treating 
the rest of them like this and I'm going to kick you off the team." 
 
He really thought for a moment th at Ron might hit him, but then 
something much worse happened: Ron seemed to sag on his broom. all the 
fight went out of him and he sa id, "I resign. I'm pathetic." 
 
"You're not pathetic and you're not resigning!" said Harry fiercely, seizing 
Ron by the front of his robes. "You can  save any-thing when you're on form, 
it's a mental problem you've got!" "You calling me mental?" "Yeah, maybe I 
am!" 
 They glared at each other for a mome nt, then Ron shook his head wearily. 
"I know you haven't got any time to find another Keeper, so I'll play 
tomorrow, but if we lose, and we will,  I'm tak-ing myself off the team." 
 
Nothing Harry said made any diffe rence. He tried boosting Ron's 
confidence all through dinner, but Ron was too busy being grumpy and surly 
with Hermione to notice. Harry persis ted in the common room that evening, 
but his assertion that the whole team would be devastated if Ron left was 
somewhat undermined by the fact that th e rest of the team was sitting in a 
huddle in a distant corner, clearly mu ttering about Ron and casting him nasty 
looks. Finally Harry tried getting angry again in the hope of provoking Ron 
into a defiant, and hopefully goal-sav ing, attitude, but th is strategy did not 
appear to work any better than encour agement; Ron went to bed as dejected 
and hopeless as ever. 
 
Harry lay awake for a very long time in  the darkness. He did not want to 
lose the upcoming match; not only was it his first as Cap-tain, but he was 
determined to beat Draco Malfoy at Qui dditch even if he could not yet prove 
his suspicions about him. Yet if Ron played as he had done in the last few 
practices, their chances of winning were very slim. . . . 
 
If only there was something he c ould do to make Ron pull him-self 
together . . . make him play at the top of his form . . . some-thing that would 
ensure that Ron had a really good day. . . . 
 
And the answer came to Harry in on e, sudden, glorious stroke of 
inspiration.  
Breakfast was the usual excitable affa ir next morning; the Slytherins 
hissed and booed loudly as every member of the Gryffindor team entered the 
Great Hall. Harry glanced at the ceili ng and saw a clear, pale blue sky: a 
good omen. 
 
The Gryffindor table, a solid mass of red and gold, cheered as Harry and 
Ron approached. Harry grinned and waved; Ron gri-maced weakly and 
shook his head. 
 
"Cheer up, Ron!" calle d Lavender. "I know you' ll be brilliant!" : Ron 
ignored her. 
 
"Tea?" Harry asked him. "Coffee? Pu mpkin juice?" "Anything," said Ron 
glumly, taking a moody bite of toast. 
 
A few minutes later Hermione, who had become so tired of Ron's recent 
unpleasant behavior that she had not come down to breakfast with them, 
paused on her way up the table. 
 
"How are you both feeling?" she asked tentatively, her eyes on the back of 
Ron's head. 
 
"Fine," said Harry, who was concen trating on handing Ron a glass of 
pumpkin juice. "There you go, Ron. Drink up." 
 
Ron had just raised the glass to his lips when Hermione spoke  
sharply. 
 
"Don't drink that, Ron!" 
 
Both Harry and Ron looked up at her. 
 
"Why not?" said Ron. 
 
Hermione was now staring at Harry as  though she could not be-lieve her 
eyes. 
 
"You just put something in that drink." 
 
"Excuse me?" said Harry. 
 
"You heard me. I saw you. You just tipped something into Ron's drink. 
You've got the bottle in your hand right now!" 
 
"I dont know what you're talking a bout," said Harry, stowing the little 
bottle hastily in his pocket. 
 
"Ron, I warn you, don't drink it!" Hermi one said again, alarmed, but Ron 
picked up the glass, drained it in one  gulp, and said, "Stop bossing me 
around, Hermione." 
 She looked scandalized. Bending low so that only Harry could hear her, 
she hissed, "You should be expelled for that. I'd never have believed it of 
you, Harry!" 
 
"Look who's talking," he whispere d back. "Confunded anyone lately?" 
 
She stormed up the table away from them. Harry watched her go without 
regret. Hermione had never really  understood what a serious business 
Quidditch was. He then looked around at Ron, who was smacking his lips. 
 
"Nearly time/' said Harry blithely. 
 
The frosty grass crunched underfoot as they strode down to the stadium. 
 
"Pretty lucky the weathers this  good, eh?" Harry asked Ron. 
 
"Yeah," said Ron, who wa s pale and sick-looking. 
 
Ginny and Demelza were already wearing their Quidditch robes and 
waiting in the changing room. 
 
"Conditions look ideal," said Ginny,  ignoring Ron. "And guess what? 
That Slytherin Chaser Vaisey — he took a Bludger in the head yesterday 
during their practice, and he's too sore to play! And even better than that — 
Malfoy's gone off sick too!" 
 "What?" said Harry, wheeling around to  stare at her. "He's ill? What's 
wrong with him?" 
 
"No idea, but it's great for us," sa id Ginny brightly. "They're playing 
Harper instead; he's in my year and he's an idiot." 
 
Harry smiled back vaguely, but as he pulled on his scarlet robes his mind 
was far from Quidditch. Malfoy had once before claimed he could not play 
due to injury, but on that occasion he  had made sure the whole match was 
rescheduled for a time that suited th e Slytherins better. Why was he now 
happy to let a substitute go on? Was he  really ill, or was he faking? 
 
"Fishy, isn't it?" he said in an undertone to Ron. "Malfoy not playing?" 
 
"Lucky, I call it," said R on, looking slightly more animated. "And Vaisey 
off too, he's their best goal scorer, I didn't fancy — hey!" he said suddenly, 
freezing halfway through pulling on his Ke epers gloves and staring at Harry. 
 
"What?" 
 
"I... you . . ." Ron had dropped his voice, he looked both scared and 
excited. "My drink ... my pu mpkin juice ... you didn't...?" 
 
Harry raised his eyebrows, but said nothing except, "We'll be starting in 
about five minutes, you'd better get your boots on." 
 They walked out onto the pitch to tumultuous roars and boos. One end of 
the stadium was solid red and gold; the other, a sea of green and silver. 
Many Hufflepuffs and Ravenclaws had taken sides too: Amidst all the 
yelling and clapping Harry could distinct ly hear the roar of Luna Lovegood's 
famous lion-topped hat. 
 
Harry stepped up to Madam Hooch, the referee, who was stand-ing ready 
to release the balls from the crate. 
 
"Captains shake hands," she said, a nd Harry had his ha nd crushed by the 
new Slytherin Captain, Urquhart. "Mount your brooms. On the whistle . . . 
three . . . two . . . one . . ." 
 
The whistle sounded, Harry and the othe rs kicked off hard from the frozen 
ground, and they were away. 
 
Harry soared around the perimeter of the grounds, looking around for the 
Snitch and keeping one eye on Harper, who was zigzagging far below him. 
Then a voice that was jarringly different to the usual commentator's started 
up. 
 
"Well, there they go, and I think we'r e all surprised to see the team that 
Potter's put together this year. Many thought, given Ronald Weasley's patchy 
performance as Keeper last year, that  he might be off the team, but of 
course, a close personal friendship w ith the Captain does help. . . ." 
 These words were greeted with jeers and applause from the Slytherin end 
of the pitch. Harry craned around on his broom to look toward the 
commentator's podium. A call, skinny blond buy with an upturned nose was 
standing there, talking into the magi cal megaphone that had once been Lee 
Jordan's; Harry recognized Zacharias Smith, a Hufflepuff player whom he 
heartily disliked. 
 
"Oh, and here comes Sl ytherin's first attempt on goal, it's Urquhart 
streaking down the pitch and —" 
 
Harrys stomach turned over. 
 
"— Weasley saves it, well, he's bound to get lucky sometimes, I suppose. 
. . ." 
 
"That's right, Smith, he is," muttered Harry, grinning to him-self, as he 
dived amongst the Chasers with his eyes  searching all around for some hint 
of the elusive Snitch. 
 
With half an hour of the game gone, Gryffindor were leading sixty points 
to zero, Ron having made some truly spectacular saves, some by the very 
tips of his gloves, and Ginny having scor ed four of Gryffindor's six goals. 
This effectively stopped Zacharias won-dering loudly whether the two 
Weasleys were only there because Harry liked them, and he started on 
Peakes and Coote instead. 
 "Of course, Coote isn't really the usua l build for a Beater," said Zacharias 
loftily, "they've generally got a bit more muscle —" 
 
"Hit a Bludger at him!" Harry called to Coote as he zoomed past, but 
Coote, grinning broadly, chose to ai m the next Bludger at Harper instead, 
who was just passing Harry in the oppos ite direc-tion. Harry was pleased to 
hear the dull thunk that meant the Bludger had found its mark. 
 
It seemed as though Gryffindor coul d do no wrong. Again and again they 
scored, and again and again, at the ot her end of the pitc h, Ron saved goals 
with apparent ease. He was actua lly smiling now, and when the crowd 
greeted a particularly good save with a 
 
rousing chorus of the old favorite "Weasley Is Our King," he pre-tended 
to conduct them from on high. 
 
"Thinks he's something special today, doesn't he?" said a snide voice, and 
Harry was nearly knocked off his broom  as Harper collided with him hard 
and deliberately. "Your blood-traito r pal..." Madam Hooch's back was 
turned, and though Gryffindors be-low shouted in anger, by the time she 
looked around, Harper had already sped  off. His shoulder aching, Harry 
raced after him, de-termi ned to ram him back. ... 
 
"And I think Harper of Slytherin's s een the Snitch!" said Zacharias Smith 
through his megaphone. "Yes, he's certainly seen something Potter hasn't!" 
 Smith really was an idiot, thought Harry, hadn't he noticed them collide? 
But next moment, his stomach seemed to drop out of the , sky — Smith was 
right and Harry was wrong: Harper had not sped upward at random; he had 
spotted what Harry had not: The Sn itch was speeding along high above 
them, glinting brightly against the clear blue sky. 
 
Harry accelerated; the wind was whistling in his ears so that it drowned 
all sound of Smith's commentary or the crowd, but Harper was still ahead of 
him, and Gryffindor was only a hundred points up; if Harper got there first 
Gryffindor had lost. . . and now Ha rper was feet from it, his hand 
outstretched. ... 
 
"Oi, Harper!" yelled Harry in desperation. "How much did Malfoy pay 
you to come on instead of him?" 
 
He did not know what made him say it,  but Harper did a dou-ble-take; he 
fumbled the Snitch, let it slip through his fingers, and shot right past it. 
Harry made a great swipe for the ti ny, fluttering ball and caught it. 
 
"YES!" Hairy yelled. Wheeling arou nd, he hurtled back toward the 
ground, the Snitch held high in his ha nd. As the crowd realized what had 
happened, a great shout went up that  almost drowned the sound of the 
whistle that signaled the end of the game. 
 
"Ginny, where're you going?" yelled  Harry, who had found hint self 
trapped in the midst of a mass midair  hug with the rest of tin1 team, but 
Ginny sped right on past them until, w ith an almighty crash, she collided with the commentators podium. As th e crowd shrieked and laughed, the 
Gryffindor team landed beside the wr eckage of wood under which Zacharias 
was feebly stirring,: Harry heard Ginny saying blithely to an irate Professor 
McGonagall, "Forgot to br ake, Professor, sorry." 
 
Laughing, Harry broke free of the rest  of the team and hugged Ginny, but 
let go very quickly. Avoiding her gaze , he clapped cheering Ron on the back 
instead as, all enmity forgotten, the Gr yffindor team left the pitch arm in 
arm, punching the air ami waving to their supporters. 
 
The atmosphere in the changing room  was jubilant. "Party up in the 
common room, Seamus said!" yelled Dean exuberantly. "C'mon, Ginny, 
Demelza!" 
 
Ron and Harry were the la st two in the changing room. They were just 
about to leave when Hermione ente red. She was twisting her Gryffindor 
scarf in her hands and looke d upset but determined. "I  want a word with you, 
Harry." She took a deep breath. "Y on shouldn't have done it. You heard 
Slughorn, its illegal." "What are you go ing to do, turn us in?" demanded 
Ron. "What are you two talking about?"  asked Harry, turning away to hang 
up his robes so that neither of them would see him grinning, "You know perfectly well what we're talking about!"  said Hermione shrilly. "You spiked 
Rons juice with lucky potion at  breakfast! I'elix Felicis!" 
 
"No, I didn't," said Harry, turning back to face them both. 
 "Yes you did, Harry, and that's why everything went right, there were 
Slytherin players missing a nd Ron saved everything!" 
 
"I didn't put it in!" said Harry, grin ning broadly. He slipped his hand 
inside his jacket pocket and drew out the tiny bottle that Hermione had seen 
in his hand that morning. It was full of golden potion and the cork was still 
tightly sealed with wax. "I wanted Ron to think I'd done it, so I faked it 
when I knew you were look-ing." He looked at Ron. "You saved everything 
because you felt lucky. You did it all yourself." 
 
He pocketed the potion again. 
 
"There really wasn't anything in my pumpkin juice?" Ron said, astounded. 
"But the weather's good. . . and Vaisey  couldn't play. ... I honestly haven't 
been given lucky potion?" ] 
 
Harry shook his head. Ron gaped at  him for a moment, then rounded on 
Hermione, imitating her voice.  "You added Felix Felicis to Ron’s juice this 
morning, that's why he saved everything ! See! I can save goals without help, 
Hermione!" 
 
"I never said you couldn't — Ron, you thought you'd been given it too!" 
 
But Ron had already strode past her out of the door with his broomstick 
over his shoulder. 
 "Er," said Harry into the sudden silen ce; he had not expected his plan to 
backfire like this, "shall. . . sha ll we go up to the party, then?" 
 
"You go!" said Hermione, blinking back tears. "I'm sick of Ron at the 
moment, I don't know what I'm s upposed to have done. . . ." 
 
And she stormed out of the changing room too. 
 
Harry walked slowly back up the grounds toward the castle through the 
crowd, many of whom shouted congratul ations at him, but he felt a great 
sense of letdown; he had been sure that if Ron won the match, he and 
Hermione would be friends again immedi ately. He did not see how he could 
possibly explain to Hermi-one that what she had done to offend Ron was 
kiss Viktor Krum, not when the offense had occurred so long ago. 
 
Harry could not see Hermione at the Gryffindor celebration party, which 
was in full swing when he arrived. Renewed cheers and clapping greeted his 
appearance, and he was soon surrounded by a mob of people congratulating 
him. What with trying to shake off the Creevey brothers, who wanted a 
blow-by-blow match analysis, and the large group of girls that encircled 
him, laughing at his least amusing comments and batting their eyelids, it was 
some time before he could try and find Ron. At last, he extricated him-self 
from Romilda Vane, who was hinting heav ily that she would like to go to 
Slughorn's Christmas party with him. As  he was duck-ing toward the drinks 
table, he walked straight into Ginny,  Arnold the Pygmy Puff riding on her 
shoulder and Crookshanks mewing hopefully at her heels. 
 "Looking for Ron?" she asked, smirki ng. "He's over there, the filthy 
hypocrite." 
 
Harry looked into the corner she was i ndicating. There, in full view of the 
whole room, stood Ron wrapped so cl osely around Lavender Brown it was 
hard to tell whose hands were whose. 
 
"It looks like he's eating her face, doe sn't it?" said Ginny dispas-sionately. 
"But I suppose he's got to refine  his technique somehow. Good game, 
Harry." 
 
She patted him on the arm; Harry felt a swooping sensation in his 
stomach, but then she walked off to  help herself to more butterbeer. 
Crookshanks trotted after her, hi s yellow eyes fixed upon Arnold. 
 
Harry turned away from Ron, who did not look like  he would be surfacing 
soon, just as the portrait hole was closi ng. With a sinking feeling, he thought 
he saw a mane of bushy brown hair whip-ping out of sight. 
 
He darted forward, sidestepped Rom ilda Vane again, and pushed open the 
portrait of the Fat Lady. The corridor outside , seemed to be deserted. 
 
"Hermione?" 
 
He found her in the first unlocked cl assroom he tried. She was sitting on 
the teacher's desk, alone except for a small ring of twit-tering yellow birds circling her head, which she had clearly just conjured out of midair. Harry 
could not help admiring her spe ll-work at a time like this. 
 
"Oh, hello, Harry," she said in a br ittle voice. "I was just practicing." 
 
"Yeah . . . they're — er — really good. ..." said Harry. 
 
He had no idea what to say to her. He was just  wondering whether there 
was any chance that she had not noticed Ron, that she had merely left the 
room because the party was a little t oo rowdy, when she said, in an 
unnaturally high-pitched voice,  "Ron seems to be enjoying the celebrations." 
 
"Er . . . does he?" said Harry. 
 
"Don't pretend you didn't see him," said Hermione. "He wasn't exactly 
hiding it, was — ?" 
 
The door behind them burst open. To Harry's horror, Ron came in, 
laughing, pulling Lavender by the hand. ; ' 
 
"Oh," he said, drawing up short at the sight of Harry and Hermione. 
 
"Oops!" said Lavender, and she backed  out of the room, gig-gling. The 
door swung shut behind her. 
 There was a horrible, swelling, billowing  silence. Hermione was staring at 
Ron, who refused to look at  her, but said with an odd mixture of bravado and 
awkwardness, "Hi, Harry! Wondered where you'd got to!" 
 
Hermione slid off the desk. The little flock of golden bi rds con-tinued to 
twitter in circles around her head so th at she looked like a strange, feathery 
model of the solar system. 
 
"You shouldn't leave Lavender waiting ou tside," she said quietly. "She'll 
wonder where you've gone." 
 
She walked very slowly and erectly toward the door. Harry glanced at 
Ron, who was looking relieved that nothing worse had happened. 
 
"Oppugno!" came a shriek from the doorway. 
 
Harry spun around to see Hermione  pointing her wand at Ron, her 
expression wild: The little flock of birds was speeding like a hail of fat 
golden bullets toward Ron, who yelped and covered his face with his hands, 
but the birds attacked, pecking and claw ing at every bit of flesh they could 
reach. 
 
"Gerremoffme!" he yelle d, but with one last look of vindictive fury, 
Hermione wrenched open the door a nd disappeared through it. Harry 
thought he heard a sob before it slammed. 
CHAPTER 15
 
 Snow was swirling against the ic y windows once more ; Christmas was 
approaching fast. Hagrid had alrea dy singlehandedly delivered the usual 
twelve C hristmas trees to the Great Hall; garlands of holly and tinsel had 
been twisted around the banisters of the stairs; everlasting candles glowed 
from inside the helmets of suits of ar mor and great bunches of mistletoe had 
been hung at intervals along the corridors . Large groups of girls tended to 
converge underneath the mistletoe bunc hes every time Harry went past, 
which caused blockages in the corridor s; fortunat e ly, however, Harry's 
frequent nighttime wanderings had gi ven him an unusua lly good knowledge 
of the castle's secret passageways, so that he was often, without too much 
difficulty, to naviga t e mistle toe-free routes between classes. 
 
Ron, who might once have found the necessity of these detours excuse for 
jealousy rather than hilarity, simply roared with laughter about it all. 
Although Harry much preferred this ne w laughing, joking Ron to the moody, 
aggressive model he had been enduring for the last few weeks, the improved 
Ron came at a heavy price. Firstly, Ha rry had to put up with the frequent 
presence of Lavender Brown, who seemed  to regard any moment that she 
was not kissing Ron as a moment wasted ; and secondly, Harry found himself 
once more the best friend of two peopl e who seemed unlikely ever to speak 
to each other again. 
 
Ron, whose hands and forearms still bore scratches and cuts from 
Hermione's bird attack, was taki ng a defensive and resentful tone. 
 "She can't complain," he told Harry . "She snogged Krum. So she's found 
out someone wants to snog me too. We ll, it's a free country. I haven't done 
anything wrong." 
 
Harry did not answer, but pretended to  be absorbed in the book they were 
supposed to have read before Char ms next morning (Quintessence: A Q 
uest). Determined as he was to rema in friends with bot h Ron and Hermione, 
he was spending a lot of time with his mouth shut tight. 
 
"I never promised Hermione anythi ng , " Ron mumbled. "I mean, all 
right, I was going to go to Slughorn's Ch ristmas party with her, but she never 
said... just as friends... I'm a free agent..." 
 
Harry turned a page of Quintessence,  aware that Ron was watching him. 
Ron's voice trailed away in mutters, barely audible over the loud crackling 
of the fire, though Harry thought he ca ught the words "Krum" and "Can't 
complain" again. 
 
Hermione's schedule was so full that Ha rry could only talk to her properly 
in the evenings, when Ron was, in  any case, so tightly wrapped around 
Lavender that he did not notice what Harry was doing. Hermione refused to 
sit in the common room while Ron was there, So Harry generally joined her 
in the library, which meant that their conversations were held in whispers. 
 
"He's at perfect liberty to kiss whomever he likes," said Hermione, while 
the librarian , Madam Pince, prowled the shelves behind them. "I really 
couldn't care less."  
She raised her quill and dotted an 'i' so ferociously that she punctured a 
hole in her parchment. Harry said nothing. He thoug ht his voice might soon 
vanish from the lack of use. He bent a little lower over Advanced Potion-
Making and continued to make notes on Everlasting Elixirs, occasionally 
pausing to decipher the p rince's useful  additions to Libatius B orage's text. 
 
"And incidentally," said Hermione, af ter a few moments, "you need to be 
careful." 
 
"For the last time," said Harry, speak ing in a slightly hoarse tone after 
three-quarters of an ho u r of silence, "I am not giving back this book . I've 
learned more from the Half-blood p ri nce than Snape or Slughorn have 
taught me in--" 
 
"I'm not talking about your stupid so -called prince," sa id Hermione , 
giving his book a nasty look as though it ha d been rude to her. "I'm talki ng 
about earlier. I went into the girl's bathroom just before I came in here and 
there were about a dozen girls in there,  including that Romilda Vane , trying 
to decide how to slip you a love poti on. They're all hoping they're going to 
get you to take them to Sl ughorn's party, and thay all seem to have bought 
Fred and George's love potions, which I' m afraid to say probably work --" 
 
"Why didn't you confiscate them then?" demanded Harry, it seemed 
extraordinary that Hermione's m ania  for upholding the rules could have 
abandoned her at this crucial juncture. 
 "They didn't have the potions with them  in the bathroom," said Hermione 
scornfully, "They were just discussing  tactics. As I doubt the Half-blood 
prince" she gave the book another scor nful look "could dream up an antidote 
for a dozen different love potions at on ce, I'd just invite someone to go with 
you, that'll stop all the others thinking they've still got a chance. It's tomor r 
ow night, they're getting desperate." 
 
"There isn't anyone I want  to invite," mumbled Harry, who was still not 
trying to think about Ginny any more than  he could help, despite the fact the 
fact that she kept cropping up in his dr eams in ways that made him devoutly 
thankful that Ron could not perform Legilimency. 
 
"Well, just be careful what you dri nk, because Romilda Va ne looked like 
she meant business." said Hermione grimly. 
 
She hitched up the long roll of parc hment on which she was writing her 
Arithma n cy essay and continued to sc ratch away with he r quill. Harry wa t 
che d her with his mind a long way away. 
 
"Hang on a moment," he said slow ly. "I thought Filch had banned 
anything bought at Weasley's Wizard Wheezes?" 
 
"And when has anyone ever paid a ttention to what Filch has banned?" 
asked Hermione, still con centrating on her essay. 
 
"But I thought all the owls were bei ng searched. So how come these grils 
are able to bring love potions into the school?"  
"Fred and George send them disgui sed as perfumes and cough potions," 
said Hermione. "It's part of  their Owl order service." 
 
"You know a lot about it." 
 
Hermione gave him the ki nd of nasty look she had just given his copy of 
Advanced Potion-Making. 
 
"It was all on the back of the bottle s they showed Ginny and me in the 
summer," she said coldly, "I don't go around putting potions in people's 
drinks... or pretending too eit h er, which is just as bad..." 
 
"Yeah, well, never mind that," said Ha rry quickly. "The point is, Filch is 
being fooled isn't he? These girls are getting stuff into the school disguised as something else! So why couldn't Ma lfoy have brought the necklace into 
the school --?" 
 
"Oh, Harry... not that again..." 
 
"Come on, why not?" demanded Harry. 
 
"Look , " sighed Hermione, "Secrecy Se nsors detect jinxes, curses, and 
concealment charms, don't they? They're used to find d ark magic and d ark 
obje c ts. They'd have picked up a powerful curse , like the one in the 
necklace, withi n seconds. But something that's just been put in the wrong 
bottle wouldn ' t register -- anyway Love potions aren't  d ark or dangerous -"  
"Easy for you to say," muttered Ha rry, thinking of Romilda Vane. 
 
"-- so it would be down to Filch to  realise it wasn't a cough potion, and 
he's not a very good wizard, I doubt  he can tell one potion from --" 
 
Hermione stopped dead; Harry had heard it too. Somebody had moved 
close behind them among the dark booksh elves. They waited, and a moment 
later the vulturelike countenance of Madam Pince appeared around the 
corner, her sunken cheeks, her skin like parchment, and her long hooked 
nose illuminated unflatteringly by the lamp she was carrying. 
 
"The library is now closed," she sa id, "Mind you return anything you have 
borrowed to the correct -- what have  you been doing to that book, you 
depraved boy?" 
 
"It isn't the library's, it's mine!" said  Harry hastily, snatching his copy of 
Advanced Potion-Making off the table as  she lunged at it with a clawlike 
hand. 
 
" Spoiled!" she hissed . "Desecrated, befouled !" 
 
"It's just a book that's been written on!" said Harry, tugging it out of her 
grip. 
 She looked as though she might have  a seizure; Hermione, who had 
hastily packed her things, grabbed Harry by the arm and frogmarched him 
away. 
 
"She'll ban you from the library if you' re not careful. Why did you have to 
bring that stupid book?" 
 
"It's not my fault she's barking mad, Hermione. Or  d'you think she 
overheard you being rude about Filch? I've always though t there might be 
something between them..." 
 
"Oh, ha ha.." 
 
Enjoying the fact that they could sp eak normally again, they made their 
way along the deserted lamp-lit corridor s back to the common room, arguing 
w hether or not Filch and Madam Pince were secretly in love with each 
other. 
 
"Baubles" said Harry to the Fat La dy, this being the new, festive 
password. 
 
"Same to you," said the fat lady with a roguish grin, and she swung 
forward to admit them. 
 
"Hi, Harry!" said Romilda Vane, the moment he had climbed through the 
portrait hole. "Fancy a gillywater?" 
 Hermione gave him a "what-did-I-tell-you?" look over her shoulder. 
 
"No thanks," said Harry quickly. "I don't like it much." 
 
"Well, take these anyway," said Romilda, thrusting a box into his hands. 
"Chocolate Cauldrons, they've got firewh iskey in them. My gran sent them 
to me, but I don't like them." 
 
"Oh-- right -- thanks a lot." said Harry, who could not think what else to 
say. " Er-- I ' m just goi ng over here with ..." 
 
He hurried off behind Hermione, his voice tailing away feebly. 
 
"Told you," said Hermione succinc tly, " Sooner you ask someone, sooner 
they'll all leave you alone and you can --" 
 
But her face suddnly turned blank; she had just spotted Ron and 
Lavender, who were i ntertwin ed in the same armchair. 
 
"Well, good night, Harry" said Hermione, though it was only seven 
o'clock in the evening, and she left fo r the girl s' dormitory without another 
word. 
 
Harry went to bed comforting himself that there was only one more day of 
lessons to struggle through, plus Slug horn's party, afte r which he and Ron 
would depart together for the B urrow. It now seemed impossible that Ron 
and Hermione would make up with each other before  the holidays began, but perhaps, somehow, the break would gi ve them time to calm down, think 
better of their behavior... 
 
But his hopes were not high, and th ey sank still lower after enduring a 
Transfiguration lesson with them both next day. They had just embarked 
upon the immensely difficult topic of human transfiguration; working in 
front of mirrors , they were suposed to be changing the color of their own 
eyebrows. Hermione laughed unkindly at Ron's disastrous first attempt, 
during which he somehow managed to give himself a spectacular handlebar 
mustache; Ron retaliated by doing a cruel but accurate impression of 
Hermione jumping up and down in he r seat every time Profe s sor 
McGonagall asked a question, which Lavender and Parvati found deeply 
amusing and which reduced Hermione to the verge of tears again. She raced 
out of the classroom on the bell, leav ing half her things behind; Harry, 
deciding that her need was greater than Ron's just now, scooped up her 
remaining po ssessions and followed her. 
 
He finally tracked her down as she em erged from a girl's bathroom on the 
floor below. She was accompanied by Luna Lovegood, who was patting her 
vaguely on the back. 
 
"Oh, hello, Harry , " said  Luna . " D id you know one of your eyebrows is 
bright yellow?" 
 
"Hi, Luna. Hermione , you left your stuff..." 
 
He held out her books.  
"Oh, yes," said Hermione in a choked voice, taking her things and turning 
away quickly to hide the fact she was wiping her ey es with her pencil case. 
"Thank you , Harry. Well, I'd better get going..." 
 
And she hurried off, without ever giving Harry any time to offer words of 
comfort, though admittedly he could not think of any. 
 
"She's a bit upset , " said Luna. "I thought at first it was Moaning Myrtle 
in there, but it turned out to be He rmione. She said something about Ron 
Weasley..." 
 
"Yeah, they've had a row," said Harry. 
 
"He says funny things sometimes, doesn't  he?" said Luna as they set off 
down the corridor together. "But he can be a bit unkind. I noticed that last 
year." 
 
" I s'pose , " said Harry. Luna was demonstrating her usual knack of 
speaking uncomfortable truths; he had never met anyone quite like her. "So 
have you had a good term?" 
 
"Oh, it's been al l ri ght," said Luna. " A bit lonely without the D.A. 
Ginny's been nice, though. She stopped two boys in our Transfiguration 
class calling me 'Loony'  the other day --" 
 
"How would you like to come to S lughorn's party with me tonight?"  
The words were out of Harry's mouth before he could stop them; he heard 
himself say them as though it were a stranger speaking. 
 
Luna turned her protuberant eyes to him in surprise. 
 
"Slughorn's party? With you?" 
 
"Yeah," said Harry, "We're supposed to bring guests, so I thought you 
might like.. I mean..." He wa s keen to make his intentions perfectly clear. " I 
mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don't want to..." 
 
He was already half hoping that she didn't want to. 
 
"O h no, I'd love to go with you as friends!" said Luna, beaming as he had 
never seen her beam before . "Nobody's ever asked me to a party before, as a 
friend! Is that why you dyed your eyebrow, for the party? Should I dye mine 
too?" 
 
"No" said Harry firmly, "That was a mistake. I'll get Hermione to put it 
right for me. So I'll meet you in the en trance hall at eight o'clock then . " 
 
"AHA!" screamed a voice from overh ead and both of them jumped; 
unnoticed by either of them, they ha d just passed underneath Peeves, who 
was hanging upside down from a chande lier and grinning maliciously at 
them. 
 "Potty asked Loony to go to the pa rt y ! Potty lurves Loony! Potty 
luuuuuurves Looooony!" 
 
And he zoomed away cackling and shrieking, "Potty loves Loony!" 
 
"Nice to keep these things private," said Harry. And sure enough, in no 
time at all the whole school seemed to  know that Harry Potter was taking 
Luna Lovegood to Slughorn's party. 
 
"You could've taken anyone !" said Ron in disbe lief over dinner. "Anyone! 
And you chose Loony Lovegood?" 
 
"Don't call her that, Ron!" snapped Gi nny, pausing behind Harry on her 
way to join friends. "I'm really gl ad you're taking her Harry, she's so 
excited." 
 
And she moved on down the table to s it with Dean. Harry tried to feel 
pleased that Ginny was glad he was taking Luna to the party but could not 
quite manage it. A long way along th e table Hermione was sitting alone, 
playing with her stew. Harry noticed  Ron looking at her furtively. 
 
"You could say sorry , " suggested Harry bluntly. 
 
"What , and get attacked by another flock of canaries?" muttered Ron. 
 
"What did you have to imitate her for?" 
 "She laughed at my mustache!" 
 
"So did I, it was the stupidest thing I've ever seen." 
 
But Ron did not seem to have he a rd; Lavender had ju st arrived with 
Parvati. Squeezing herself in betwee n Harry and Ron, Lavender flung her 
arms around Ron's neck. 
 
"Hi, Harry," said Parvati who, like Harry, looked faintly embarrassed and 
bored by the behavior of their two friends. 
 
"Hi," said Harry, "How're you? You're staying at Hogwarts, then? I heard 
your parents wanted you to leave." 
 
"I managed to talk them out o f it for the time being," said Parvati. "That 
Katie thing really freaked them out, but as there hasn't been  anything since... 
Oh, hi, Hermione!" 
 
Parvati positively beamed. Harry could tell that she was feeling guilty for 
having laughed at Hermione in Transf iguration. He looked around and saw 
that Hermione was beaming back, if po ssible even more brightly. Girls were 
very strange sometimes. 
 
"Hi, Parvati!" said Hermione, i gnoring Ron and Lave nder completely. 
"Are you going to Slughorn's party tonight?" 
 "No invite," said Parvati gloomily. "I 'd love to go, though, it sounds like 
it's going to be really good... You're going, aren't you?" 
 
"Yes, I'm meeting Cormac at eight, and we're -" 
 
There was a noise like a plunger be ing withdrawn from a blocked sink , 
and Ron surfaced. Hermione acted as though she had not seen or heard 
anything. 
 
 
"- we're going up to the party together." 
 
"Cormac?" said Parvati. "C ormac McLaggen, you mean?" 
 
"That's right," said Herm ione sweetly. "The one who *almost*" - she put 
a great deal of emphasis on the word  - "bec a me Gryffindor Keeper." 
 
"Are you going out with him, then ?" asked Parva ti, wide-eyed. 
 
"Oh - yes - didn't you know?" said Ha rmione, with a most un-Hermione-
ish giggle. 
 
"No!" said Parvati, looking positively agog at thi s piece of gossip. "Wow 
, you like your Quidditch players, don't you? First Krum, then McLaggen." 
 
"I like *really good* Quidditch players, " Hermione corrected her, still 
smiling. "Well, see you... Got to go and get ready for the party..."  
She left. At once Lavender and Parvati put their heads together to discuss 
this new development, with ever ything they had ever heard about 
McLaggen, and all they had ever guessed about Herm ione. Ron looked 
strangely blank and said nothing. Harry  was left to ponder in silence the 
depths to which girls w ould sink to get revenge. 
 
When he arrived in the entrance hall at eight o'clock that night, he found 
an unusually large number of girls lurki ng there, all of whom seemed to be 
staring at him resentfully as he appr oached Luna. She was wearing a set of 
spangled silver robes that were attr acting a certain amount of giggles from 
the onlookers, but otherwise she looked quite nice. Harry was glad, in any 
case, that she had left off her radish earrings, her butterbeer cork necklace, 
and her Spectrespecs. 
 
"Hi," he said. "Shall we get going then?" 
 
"Oh yes," she said happily . "Where is the party?" 
 
"Slughorn's office," said Harry, leading her up the marble staircase away 
from all the staring and muttering. "Did  you hear, there's supposed to be a 
vampire coming?" 
 
 "Rufus Scrimgeour?" asked Luna. 
 
"I - what?" said Harry, disconcerted.  "You mean the Minister of Magic?" 
 "Yes, he's a vampire," said Luna ma tter-of-factly. "Father wrote a very 
long article about it when Scrimgeour first took over from Cornelius Fudge, 
but he was forced not to publish by somebody from the Ministry. Obviously, 
they didn't want the truth to get out!" 
 
Harry, who thought it most unlikely that Rufus Scrimgeour was a 
vampire, but who was used to Luna re peating her father's bizarre views as 
though they were fact, did not repl y; they were already approaching 
Slughorn's office and the sounds of la ughter, music, a nd loud conversation 
were growing louder with every step they took. 
 
Whether it had been built that way, or because he had used magical 
trickery to make it so, Slughorn's office was much larger  than the usual 
teacher's study. The ceili ng and walls had been draped with emerald, 
crimson , and gold hangings, so that it looked as though they were all inside a vast tent. The room was crowded and st uffy and bathed in the red light cast 
by an ornate golden lamp dangling from  the center of the ceiling in which 
real fairies were fluttering, each a brilliant speck of light. Loud singing 
accompanied by what sounded like mandolin s issued from a distant corner; a 
haze of pipe smoke hung over several el derly warlocks deep in conversation, 
and a number of house-elves were ne gotiating their way squeakily through 
the forest of knees, obscured by the hea vy silver platters of food they were 
bearing, so that they looked like little roving tables. 
 
"Harry, m'boy!" boomed Slughorn, almost  as soon as Harry and Luna had 
squeezed in through the door. "Come in, come in, so many people I'd like 
you to meet!"  
Slughorn was wearing a tasseled velvet  hat to match his smoking jacket. 
Gripping Harry's arm so tightly he might have been hoping to Disapparate 
with him, Slughorn led him purposefully into the party; Harry seized Luna's 
hand and dragged her along with him. 
 
"Harry, I'd like you to meet Eldred Worple, an old student of mine, author 
of ' Blood Brothers: My L ife Amongst the Vampires' - and, of course, his 
friend Sanguini." 
 
Worple, who was a small, stout, bespec tacled man, grabbed Harry's hand 
and shook it enthusiastically; the vampire Sanguini, who was tall and 
emaciated with dark shadows under his eyes, merely nodded. He looked 
rather bored. A gaggle of girls was standing close to him, looking curious 
and excited. 
 
"Harry Potter, I am simply de lighted!" said Worple, peering 
shortsightedly up into Harry's face. "I  was saying to Professor Slughorn only 
the other day, 'Where is the biography of  Harry Potter for which we have all 
been waiting?'" 
 
"Er," said Harry, "were you?" 
 
"Just as modest as Horace describe d!" said Worple. "But seri-ously" — 
his manner changed; it became suddenly businesslike — "I would be delighted to write it myself— people are craving to know more about you, 
dear boy, craving! If you were prepared to grant me a few interviews, say in four- or five-hour sessions, why, we could have the book finished within 
months. And all with very little effort on your part, I assure you — ask 
Sanguini here if it isn't quite — Sa nguini, stay here!" added Worple, 
suddenly stern, for the vampire had been  edging toward the nearby group of 
girls, a rather hungry look in his eye. "Here, have a pasty," said Worple, 
seizing one from a passing elf and stuf fing it into Sanguini's hand before 
turning his attention back to Harry. "My dear boy, the gold you could make, 
you have no idea —" 
 
"I'm definitely not interested," said Harry firmly, "and I've just seen a 
friend of mine, sorry." He pulled Luna  after him into the crowd; he had 
indeed just seen a long mane of brow n hair disappear between what looked 
like two members of the Weird Sisters. 
 
"Hermione! Hermione !" 
 
"Harry! There you are, thank goodness! Hi, Luna !" 
 
"What's happened to you?" asked Harry, for Hermi one looked distinctly 
disheveled, rather as though she had just fought her way out of a thicket of Devil's Snare. 
 
"Oh, I've just escaped — I mean, I've just left Cormac,"  she said. "Under 
the mistletoe," she added in explanation, as Harry continued to look questioningly at her. 
 "Serves you right for coming with him," he told her severely. "I thought 
he'd annoy Ron most," said Hermione dispassion-ately. "I debated for a 
while about Zacharias Smith, but I thought, on the whole —" 
 
"You considered Smith?" said Harry, revoked. 
 
"Yes, I did, and I'm starting to wish I'd chosen him, McLaggen makes 
Grawp look a gentleman. Let's go this wa y, we'll be able to see him coming, 
he's so tall. . . ." The three of them made their way over to the other side of 
the room, scooping up goblets of mead on the way, realizing too late that 
Professor Trelawney was standing there alone. 
 
"Hello," said Luna politely  to Professor Trelawney. 
 
  
 
"Good evening, my dear," said Professor Trelawney, focusing upon Luna 
with some difficulty. Harry could smell cooking sherry again. "I haven't seen 
you in my classes lately. .." 
 
"No, I've got Firenze th is year," said Luna. 
 
"Oh, of course," said Professor Trel awney with an angry, drunken titter. 
"Or Dobbin, as I prefer to think of him. You would have thought, would you 
not, that now I am returned to the school Professor Dumbledore might have 
got rid of the horse? But no ... we share classes. . . . It's an insult, frankly, an insult. Do you know. . ." Professor Trelawney seemed too tipsy to have 
recognized Harry. 
 
Under cover of her furious criticisms of Firenze, Harry drew closer to 
Hermione and said, "Let ' s get something straight. Are you planning to tell 
Ron that you interfered at Keeper tryouts?" 
 
Hermione raised her eyebrows. "Do you really think I'd stoop that low?" 
 
Harry looked at her shrewdly. "H ermione, if you can ask 0111 McLaggen 
—" 
 
"There's a difference," sa id Hermione with dignity. "I've got no plans to 
tell Ron anything about what might, or might not, have happened at Keeper 
tryouts." 
 
"Good," said Harry fervently. "Because he 'll just fall apart again, and we'll 
lose the next match —" 
 
"Quidditch!" said Hermione angrily. "Is that all boys care about? Cormac 
hasn't asked me one single question abou t myself, no, I've just been treated 
to 'A Hundred Great Saves Made by Cormac McLaggen' nonstop ever since 
— oh no, here he comes!" She moved so fast it was as though she had 
Disapparated; one moment she was there, the next, she had squeezed between two guffawing w itches and vanished. 
 "Seen Hermione?" asked McLaggen, forcing his way through the throng a 
minute later. 
 
 "No, sorry," said Harry, and he turned quickly to join in Luna's 
conversation, forgetting for a split second to whom she was talking. 
 
"Harry Potter!" said Profe ssor Trelawney in deep, vibrant tones, noticing 
him for the first time. 
 
"Oh, hello," said Harry unenthusiastically. 
 
"My dear boy!" she said in a very carrying whisper. "The rumors! The 
stories! 'The Chosen One'! Of course, I have known for a very long time. . . . 
The omens were never good, Harry. . . But why have you not returned to 
Divination? For you, of all people, the subject is of the utmost importance!" 
 
  
 
"Ah, Sybi l l, we all th ink our subject's most important!" said a loud voice, 
and Slughorn appeared at Professor Trel awney s other side, his face very 
red, his velvet hat a little askew, a glass of mead in one hand and an 
enormous mince pie in the other. "But  I don't t hink I've ever known such a 
natural at Potions!" said Slughorn, re-garding Harry with a fond, if 
bloodshot, eye. "Instinctive, you know  — like his mother! I've only ever 
taught a few with this kind of ability, I can tell you that, Sybi l l — why even 
Severus —" And to Harry's horror, Sl ughorn threw out an arm and seemed 
to scoop Snape out of thin air toward them. "Stop skulking and come and join us, Severus!" hiccuped Slughorn happily. "I was just talking about 
Harry's exceptional po-tion-making! Some  credit must go to you, of course, 
you taught him for five years!" 
 
Trapped, with Slughorns arm around his shoulders, Snape looked down 
his hooked nose at Harry, his black ey es narrowed. "Funny, I never had the 
impression that I managed to teach Potter anything at all." 
 
"Well, then, it's natural ability!" shout ed Slughorn. "You s hould have seen 
what he gave me, first lesson, Dra ught of Living Death — never had a 
student produce finer on a first attempt,  I don't think even you, Severus —" 
 
"Really?" said Snape quietly, his ey es still boring into Harry, who felt a 
certain disquiet. The last thing he want ed was for Snape to start investigating 
the source of his newfound brilliance at Potions. 
 
"Remind me what other subjects you're  taking, Harry?" asked Slughorn . 
 
"Defense Against the D ark Arts, Char ms, Transfiguration , Herbology..." 
 
"All the subjects required, in short, for an Auror ," said Snap e with the 
faintest sneer. 
 
"Yeah, well, that's what I'd lik e to do," said Harry defiantly. 
 
"And a great one you'll make too!" boomed Slughorn. 
 "I don't think you should be an Auror,  Harry," said Luna unex pectedly. 
Everybody looked at her. "The Aurors are part of the Rotfang Conspiracy, I 
thought everyone knew that. They're pla nning to bring down the Ministry of 
Magic from within using a c om binati on of Dark Magic and gum disease." 
 
Harry inhaled half his mead up his nose  as he started to lau gh. Really, it 
had been worth bringing Luna just for this. Emerging, from his goblet, 
coughing, sopping wet but still grinning , he saw something calculated to 
raise his spirits even higher: Draco Malf  o y being dragged by the ear toward 
them by Argus Filch. 
 
"Professor Slughorn," wheezed Filch, his jowls aquiver and the maniacal 
light of mischief-detection in his bulging  eyes, "I discovered this boy lurking 
in an upstairs corridor. He claims to have been invited to your party and to have been delayed in se tting out. Did you issue him with an invitation?" 
 
Malfoy pulled himself free of Filchs grip, looking furious. "All right, I 
wasn't invited!" he said angrily. "I  was trying to gate crash, happy?" 
 
"No, I'm not!" said Filch, a statemen t at complete odds with the glee on 
his face. "You're in trouble, you are!  Didn't the headma ster say that 
nighttime prowling ' s out, unless you've got permission, didn't he, eh?" 
 
"That's all right, Argus, that's all ri ght," said Slughorn, waving it 1.1 nd. 
"It's Christmas, and it's not a crime to want to come to a party . Just this 
once, we'll forget any punishment; you may stay , Draco. 
 Fil ich's expression of outraged disa ppointment was perfectly pre di c t 
able; but why, Harry w ondered, watching him, did Malfoy look almost 
equally unhappy? And why was Snape looking at Mal-foy as though both 
angry and . . . was it p ossible? ... a lit tl afraid? But almost before Harry had 
registered what he had seen, Filch ha d turned and shuffled away, muttering 
under his breath; Malfoy h ad composed  his face into a smile and was 
thanking Slughorn for his generos ity, and Snape's face was smoothly 
inscrutable again. 
 
"It's nothing, nothing," said Slughorn , waving away Malfoy's t hanks. "I 
did know your grandfather, after all...." 
 
"He always spoke very highly of you, sir," said Malfoy quickly. "Said you 
were the best potion-maker he'd ever known. ..." 
 
Harry stared at Malfoy. It was not the sucking-up that intrigued him; he 
had watched Malfoy do that to Snape fo r a long time. It was the fact that 
Malfoy did, after all, look a little ill. This was the first time he had seen 
Malfoy close up for ages; he now saw that Malfoy had dark shadows under 
his eyes and a distinctly grayish tinge to his skin. 
 
"I'd like a word with you, Dr aco," said Snape suddenly. 
 
"Now , Severus," said Slughorn, hicc uping again, "it's Christ mas, do n't 
be too hard —" 
 "I am his Head of House, and I sha ll decide how hard, or other-wise, to 
be," said Snape curtly . "Follow me, Draco." 
 
  
 
They left, Snape leading the way, Malfoy looking resentful. Harry stood 
there for a moment, irresolute, then said, "I'll be back in a bit, Luna — er — 
bathroom." 
 
  
 
"All right," she said cheerfully, and he thought he heard her, as he hurried 
off into the crowd, resume the subj ect of the Rotfang Conspiracy with 
Professor Trelawney, who seemed sincer ely in terested. It was easy, once 
out of the party, to pull his Invisibili ty Cloak out of his pocket and throw it 
over himself, for the corridor was quite  deserted. What was more difficult 
was finding Snape and Malfoy. Harry ran down the corridor, the noise of his 
feet masked by the music and loud talk still issuing from Slughorn's office 
behind him. Perhaps Snape had taken Malfoy to his office in the dungeons ... 
or perhaps he was escorting him back to the Slyt herin common room. . . . 
Harry pressed his ear against door after door as he dashed down the corridor 
until, with a great jolt of excitement, he crouched down to the keyhole of the 
last classroom in the corridor and heard voices. 
 
  
 
" . . . cannot afford mistakes, Dr aco, because if you are expelled —"  
  
 
"I didn't have anything to  do with it, all right?" 
 
"I hope you are telling the truth, beca use it was both clumsy a nd foolish. 
Already you are suspected of having a hand in it." 
 
"Who suspects me?" said Malfoy angrily. "For the last time, I didn't do it, 
okay? That Bell girl must ' ve ha d an enemy no on e knows about — don't 
look at me like that! I know what you're  do-ing, I'm not stupid, but it won't 
work — I can stop you!" 
 
There was a pause and then Snape said quietly, "Ah . . . Aunt Bellatrix has 
been teaching you Occlumency, I see. What thoughts are you trying to 
conceal from your master, Draco?" 
 
"I'm not trying to conceal anything fr om him, I just don't want you butting 
in !" Harry pressed his ear still more closely against the keyhole. . . . What 
had happened to make Malfoy speak to Snape like this — Snape, toward 
whom he had always show n respect, even liking? 
  
 
"So that is why you have been avoidi ng me this term? You have feared 
my interference? You realize that, ha d anybody else failed to come to my 
office when I had told them rep eatedly to be th ere, Draco —" 
 "So put me in detention! Report me  to Dumbledore!" jeered Malfoy. 
 
There was another pause. Then Snap e said, "You know perfectly well that 
I do not wish to do either of those things ." 
 
"You'd better stop telling me to come to your office then!" 
 
"Listen to me," said Snape, his voi ce so low now that Harry had to push 
his ear very hard against the keyhole to  hear. "I am trying to help you. I 
swore to your mother I would protect  you. I made the Unbreakable Vow, 
Draco —" 
 
"Looks like you'll have to break it, then, because I don't need your 
protection! It's my job, he gave it to me and I'm doing it, I've got a plan and 
it's going to work, it's just taking a bit longer than I thought it would!" 
 
"What is your plan ?" 
 
"It's none of your business !" 
 
" If you tell me what you are tryi ng to do, I can assist you ..." 
 
"I have all the assistance I need, thanks, I'm not alone!" 
 
"You were certainly alone tonight, which was foolish in the ex-treme, 
wandering the corridors without lookouts or backup, these are elementary 
mistakes —"   
"I would've had Crabbe and Goyle with me if you hadn't put them in 
detention!" 
 
"Keep your voice down!" spat Snape,  for Malfoy ' s voice had risen 
excitedly. "If your friends Crabbe a nd Goyle intend to pa ss their Defense 
Against the Dark Arts OWL this time ar ound, they will need to work a little 
harder than they ar e doing at pres —" 
 
"What does it matter?" said Malfoy. "D efense Against the Dark Arts — 
its all just a joke, isn't it, an act? Like  any of us need pro-tecting against the 
Dark Arts —" 
 
"It is an act that is crucial to succe ss, Draco!" said Snape. "Where do you 
think I would have been all these years, if I had not known how to act? Now 
listen to me! You are being incauti ous, wandering around at night, getting 
yourself caught, and if you are placing your reliance in assistants like Crabbe 
and Goyle —" 
 
"They're not the only ones, I've got other people on my side, better 
people!" 
 
"Then why not confide in me, and I can —" 
 
"I know what you're up to! You want to steal my glory!" 
 There was another pause, then Snape said coldly, "You are speaking like a 
child. I quite understand that your fa thers capture and imprisonment has 
upset you, but —" 
 
Harry had barely a second ' s warning; he heard Malfoy's footsteps on the 
other side of the door and flung himself out of the way just as it burst open . 
Malfoy was striding away down the corridor, past the open door of 
Slughorns office, around the distant corn er, and out of sight. Hardly daring 
to breathe, Harry remained crouched down as Snape emerged slowly from 
the classroom. His expression unfath-omable, he returned to the party. Harry 
remained on the floor, hid-den be neath the cloak, his mind racing. 
CHAPTER 16  
 
“So Snape was offering to help him? He was definitely offering to help 
him?" 
 
"If you ask. that once more," said Harry , "I'm going to stick this sprout —
" 
 
"I'm only checking!" said Ron. They were standing alone at the Burrow's 
kitchen sink, peeling a mountain of sp routs for Mrs. Weasley. Snow was 
drifting past the window in front of them. 
 
"Yes, Snape was offering to help him!" said Harry. "He said he'd 
promised Malfoy's mother to protect hi m, that he'd made  an Un-breakable 
Oath or something —" 
 "An Unbreakable Vow?" said Ron, looki ng stunned. "Nah, he can't have. . 
. . Are you sure?" 
 
"Yes, I'm sure," said Harry . "Why, what does it mean?" 
 
“Well, you can't break an Unbreakable Vow. . . ." 
 
"I'd worked that much out for myself, funnily enough. What happens if 
you break it, then?" 
 
"You die," said Ron simply. "Fred and George tried to get me to make 
one when I was about five. I nearly di d too, I was holding hands with Fred 
and everything when Dad found us. He went mental," said Ron, with a 
reminiscent gleam in his eyes. "Only tim e I've ever seen Dad as angry as 
Mum, Fred reckons his left but-tock has never been the same since." 
 
"Yeah, well, passing over Fred's left buttock —" 
 
"I beg your pardon?" said Fred's voice as the twins entered the kitchen. 
 
"Aaah, George, look at this. They'r e using knives and everything. Bless 
them." 
 
"I'll be seventeen in two and a bit m onths' time," said Ron grumpily, "and 
then I'll be able to do it by magic!" 
 "But meanwhile," said George, s itting down at the kitchen table and 
putting his feet up on it, "we can en joy watching you demon-strate the 
correct use of a — whoops-a-daisy!" 
 
"You made me do that!" sa id Ron angrily, sucking his cut thumb. "You 
wait, when I'm seventeen —" 
 
"I'm sure you'll dazzle us  all with hitherto unsu spected magical skills," 
yawned Fred. 
 
"And speaking of hitherto unsuspected skills, Ronald," said George, 
"what is this we hear from Gi nny about you and a young lady called — 
unless our information is faulty — Lavender Brown?" 
 
Ron turned a little pink, but did not look displeased as he turned back to 
the sprouts. "Mind your own business." 
 
"What a snappy retort," said Fred. "I  really don't know  how you think of 
them. No, what we wanted to know was... how did it happen?" 
 
"What d'you mean?" 
 
"Did she have an accident or something?" 
 
"What?" ..¦; 
 
"Well, how did she sustain such exte nsive brain damage? Care-ful, now!"  
Mrs. Weasley entered the room just in time to see Ron throw the sprout 
knife at Fred, who had turned it into a paper airplane with one lazy flick of 
his wand, 
 
"Ron!" she said furiously. "Don't you ever let me see you throw-ing 
knives again!" 
 
"I wont," said Ron, "let you see," he  added under his breath, as he turned 
back to the sprout mountain. 
 
"Fred, George, I'm sorry, dears, but Rem us is arriving toni ght, so Bill will 
have to squeeze in with you two." ; 
 
"No problem," said George. 
 
- "Then, as Charlie isn't coming home, that just leaves Harry and ;¦/ Ron 
in the attic, and if Fleur shares w ith Ginny —" "— that'll make Ginny's 
Christmas —" muttered Fred. "— ever yone should be comfortable. Well, 
they'll have a bed, anyway ," said Mrs. Weasley, sounding slightly harassed. 
 
"Percy definitely not showing his ugly face, then?" asked Fred. Mrs. 
Weasley turned away before she answer ed. "No, he's busy, I expect, at the 
Ministry." 
 
"Or he's the world's biggest prat," sa id Fred, as Mrs. Weasley left the 
kitchen. "One of the two. "Well,  let's get going, then, George."  
"What are you two up to?" asked Ron.  "Cant you help us with these 
sprouts? You could just use your wand and then we'll be free 
 
too!" 
 
"No, I don't think we can do that,"  said Fred seriously. "It's very 
character-building stuff, learning to p eel sprouts without magic, makes you 
appreciate how difficult it is for Mugg les and Squibs —" "— and if you 
want people to help you, Ron," added George, throwing the paper airplane at 
him, "I wouldn't chuck knives at them . Just a little hint. We're off to the 
village, there's a very pretty girl work ing in the paper shop who thinks my 
card tricks are some-thing marvelous . . , almost like real magic. ..." 
 
"Gits," said Ron darkly, watching Fr ed and George se tting off across the 
snowy yard. "Would've only taken them ten seconds and then we could've 
gone too." 
 
"I couldn't," said Harry. "I promised Dumbledore I wouldn't wander off 
while I'm staying here." 
 
"Oh yeah," said Ron. He peeled a fe w more sprouts and then said, "Are 
you going to tell Dumbledore what you heard Snape and Malfoy saying to 
each other?" 
 
"Yep," said Harry. "I'm going to tell anyone who can put a stop to it, and 
Dumbledore’s top of the list. I might ha ve another word with your dad too."  
"Pity you didn't hear what Malfoy’s actually doing, though." "I couldn't 
have done, could I? That was the whole point, he was refusing to tell 
Snape." 
 
There was silence for a moment or two, then Ron said, " 'Course, you 
know what they'll all say? Dad and Du mbledore and all of them? They'll say 
Snape isn't really trying to help Malfoy,  he was just trying to find out what 
Malfoy's up to." 
 
"They didn't hear him," said Harry fla tly. "No one's that good an actor, not 
even Snape." 
 
"Yeah . . . I'm just sayi ng, though/' said Ron. 
 
Harry turned to face him, frowni ng. "You think I'm right, though?" , 
 
"Yeah, I do!" said Ron hastily. "Seri ously, I do! But they're all convinced 
Snape's in the Orde r, aren't they?" 
 
Harry said nothing. It had already occurred to him that this would be the 
most likely objection to his new evidence; he could hear Hermione now: Obviously, Harry, he was pretending to o ffer help so he c ould trick Malfoy 
into telling him what he's doing. . . . 
 
This was pure imagination, however, as he had had no opportu-nity to tell 
Hermione what he had overheard. Sh e had disappeared from Slughorn's party before he returned to it, or so he had been informed by an irate 
McLaggen, and she had already gone to bed by the time he returned to the 
common room. As he and Ron had left fo r the Burrow early the next day, he 
had barely had time to wish her a happy Christmas and to tell her that he had 
some very important news when they  got back from the holidays. He was 
not entirely sure that she had heard hi m, though; Ron and Lavender had been 
saying a thoroughly nonverbal good-bye  just behind him at the time. 
 
Still, even Hermione would not be ab le to deny one thing: Mal-foy was 
definitely up to something, and Snape kne w it, so Harry felt fully justified in 
saying "I told you so," which he had done sev-eral times to Ron already. 
 
Harry did not get the chance to speak  to Mr. Weasley, who was working 
very long hours at the Ministry, until Christmas Eve night. The Weasleys 
and their guests were sitting in the living room, which Ginny had decorated 
so lavishly that it was rather like s itting in a paper-chain  explosion. Fred, 
George, Harry, and Ron were the only ones who knew that the angel on top 
of the tree was actually a garden gnome that had bitten Fred on the ankle as 
hr pulled up carrots for Christmas dinne r. Stupefied, painted gold, stuffed 
into a miniature tutu and with small wings glued to il.s back, it glowered 
down at them all, the ugliest angel Ha rry had ever seen, with a large bald 
head like a potato and rather hairy feet. 
 
They were all supposed to be listeni ng to a Christmas broadcast by Mrs. 
Weasleys favorite singer, Celestina Warbeck, whose voice was warbling out 
of the large wooden wireless set. Fleu r, who seemed to find Celestina very 
dull, was talking so loudly in the corn er that a scowling Mrs. Weasley kept pointing her wand at the volume con-trol , so that Celestina grew louder and 
louder. Under cover of a par-ticularly jazzy number called "A Cauldron Full 
of Hot, Strong Love," Fred and Geor ge started a game of Exploding Snap 
with Ginny. Ron kept s hooting Bill and Fleur covert  looks, as though hoping 
to pick up tips. Meanwhile, Remus Lupin, who was thinner and more 
ragged-looking than ever, was sitting besi de the fire, staring into its depths 
as though he could not hear Celestinas voice. 
 
Oh, come and stir my cauldron, 
 
And if you do it right, 
 
I'll boil you up some hot strong love 
 
To keep you warm tonight. 
 
"We danced to this when we were eighteen!" said Mrs. Weasley, wiping 
her eyes on her knitting. "Do you remember, Arthur?" 
 
"Mphf?" said Mr. Weasley, whose head had been nodding over the 
satsuma he was peeling. "Oh ye s ... marvelous tune . . ." 
 
With an effort, he sat up a little straighter and looked around at Harry, 
who was sitting next to him. 
 
"Sorry about this," he said, jerki ng his head toward the wireless as 
Celestina broke into the chorus. "Be over soon."  
"No problem," said Harry, grinning. "H as it been busy at the Ministry?" 
 
"Very," said Mr. Weasley. "I wouldn 't mind if we were  getting anywhere, 
but of the three arrests we've made in the last couple of months, I doubt that 
one of them is a genuine Death Eate r — only don't repeat that, Harry," he 
added quickly, looking much mo re awake all of a sudden. 
 
"They're not still holding Stan Shunpike, are they?" asked Harry. 
 
"I'm afraid so," said Mr. Weasley.  "I know Dumbledore's tried appealing 
directly to Scrimgeour about Stan . ... I mean, anybody who has actually 
interviewed him agrees that he's about as much a Death Eater as this satsuma 
. . . but the top levels want to look as though they're making some progress, 
and 'three arrests' sounds better than 'thr ee mistaken arrests and releases'. . . 
but again, this is 
 
all top secret. . . ." 
 
"I won't say anything," said Harry. He hesitated for a moment, wondering 
how best to embark on what he wanted to say; as he marshaled his thoughts, 
Celestina Warbeck began a ballad calle d "You Charmed the Heart Right Out 
of Me." 
 
"Mr. Weasley, you know what I told you at the station when we were 
setting off for school?" 
 "I checked, Harry," said Mr. Weasley at once. "I went and searched the 
Malfoys' house. There was nothing, eith er broken or whole, that shouldn't 
have been there." 
 
"Yeah, I know, I saw in the Prophet that you'd looked . . . but this is 
something different. . . . We ll, something more ..." 
 
And he told Mr. Weasley ever ything he had overheard between 
 
Malfoy and Snape, As Harry spoke, he  saw Lupin's head turn a lit-tle 
toward him, taking in every word. When he had finished, there was silence, 
except for Celestina's crooning. 
 
Oh, my poor heart, where has it gon e? It's left me for a spell... 
 
"Has it occurred to you, Harry," sa id Mr. Weasley, "that Snape was 
simply pretending — ?" 
 
"Pretending to offer help, so that he  could find out what Malfoy's up to?" 
said Harry quickly. "Yeah, I thought you'd say that. But how do we know?" 
 
"It isn't our business to know," said Lupin unexpectedly. He had turned 
his back on the fire now and faced Harry across Mr. Weasley. "It's 
Dumbledore’s business. Dumbledore trus ts Severus, and that ought to be 
good enough for all of us." 
 "But," said Harry, "just say — just  say Dumbledores wrong about Snape 
—" 
 
"People have said it, many times. It  comes down to whether or not you 
trust Dumbledore’s judgment. I do; therefore, I trust Severus." 
 
"But Dumbledore can make mistakes,"  argued Harry. "He says it himself. 
And you" — he looked Lupin straight  in the eye — "do you honestly like 
Snape?" 
 
"I neither like nor dislike Severus," said Lupin. "No, Harry, I am speaking 
the truth," he added, as Harry pulled a skeptical expres-sion. "We shall never 
be bosom friends, perhaps; after all th at hap-pened betwee n James and Sirius 
and Severus, there is too much bitterness there. But I do not forget that 
during the year I taught at Hogwarts , Severus made the Wolfsbane Potion 
for me every month, made it perfectly, so  that I did not have to suffer as I 
usu-ally do at the full moon." 
 
"But he 'accidentally' let it slip th at you're a werewolf, so you had to 
leave!" said Harry angrily. 
 
Lupin shrugged. "The ne ws would have leaked out anyway. We both 
know he wanted my job, but he coul d have wreaked much worse damage on 
me by tampering with the potion. He kept  me healthy. I must be grateful." 
 
"Maybe he didn't dare mess with the potion with Dumbledore watching 
him!" said Harry.  
"You are determined to hate him, Ha rry," said Lupin with a faint smile. 
"And I understand; with James as your fa ther, with Sir-ius as your godfather, 
you have inherited an old prejudice. By  all means tell Dumbledore what you 
have told Arthur and me, but do not ex pect him to share your view of the 
matter; do not even expect him to be su rprised by what you tell him. It might 
have been on Dumbledore's orders that Severus questioned Draco." ; 
 
. . . and now you've torn it quite apart I'll thank you to give back my heart! 
 
Celestina ended her song on a very  long, high-pitched note and loud 
applause issued out of the wireless, which Mrs. Weasley joined in with 
enthusiastically. 
 
"Eez eet over?" said Fleur loudly . "Thank goodness, what an 'orrible —" 
 
"Shall we have a nightcap, then?" as ked Mr. Weasley loudly, leaping to 
his feet. "Who wants eggnog?" 
 
"What have you been up to lately?" Harry asked Lupin, as Mr, Weasley 
bustled off to fetch the eggnog, and ever ybody else stretche d and broke into 
conversation. 
 
"Oh, I've been underground," said Lupin. "Almost literally. That's why I 
haven't been able to write, Harry; se nding letters to you would have been 
something of a giveaway." -: 
 "What do you mean?" ' 
 
"I've been living among my fellow s, my equals," said Lupin. 
"Werewolves," he added, at Harrys look  of incomprehension. "Nearly all of 
them are on Voldemort's side. Dumbledor e wanted a spy and here I was . . . 
ready-made." 
 
He sounded a little bitter, and perhaps realized it, for he smiled more 
warmly as he went on, "I am not comp laining; it is necessary work and who 
can do it better than I? However, it has been difficult gaining their trust. I 
bear the unmistakable signs of having tried to live among wizards, you see, 
whereas they have shunned normal soci ety and live on the margins, stealing 
— and sometimes killing — to eat." 
 
"How come they like Voldemort?" 
 
"They think that, under his rule, they will have a better life," said Lupin. 
"And it is hard to argue with Greyback out there. . . ." 
 
"Who's Greyback?" 
 
"You haven't heard of him?" Lupin's hands closed convulsively in his lap. 
"Fenrir Greyback is, perhaps, the most savage werewolf alive today. He 
regards it as his mission in life to bite  and to conta-minate as many people as 
possible; he wants to create enough were-wolves to overcome the wizards. 
Voldemort has promised him prey in return for his services. Greyback specializes in children. . . . Bite them young, he says, and raise them away from their parents, raise them to hate normal wizards. Voldemort has 
threatened to unleash him upon people's sons and daughters; it is a threat 
that usually produces good results." 
 
Lupin paused and then said, "It was Greyback who bit me." "What?" said 
Harry, astonished. "When — when you were a kid, you mean?" 
 
"Yes. My father had offended him. I did not know, for a very long time, 
the identity of the werewolf who had at tacked me; I even felt pity for him, 
thinking that he had had no contro l, know-ing by then how it felt to 
transform. But Greyback is not like that. At the full moon, he positions 
himself close to victims, ensuring that he is near enough to strike. He plans it 
all. And this is the man Voldemort is using to marshal the werewolves. I 
cannot pretend that my particular br and of reasoned argument is making 
much headway against Greyback's insi stence that we werewolves deserve 
blood, that we ought to revenge ourselves on norm al people." "But you are 
normal!" said Harry fiercely. "You've just got a — a 
 
problem —" 
 
Lupin burst out laughing. "Sometimes  you remind me a lot of James. He 
called it my 'furry little problem in company. Many peopl e were under the 
impression that I owned a badly behaved 
 
rabbit." 
 He accepted a glass of eggnog from Mr . Weasley with a word of thanks, 
looking slightly more cheerful, Harry, meanwhile, felt a rush of excitement: 
This last mention of his father had reminded him that there was something 
he had been looking forward to ask-ing Lupin. 
 
"Have you ever heard of someone called the Half-Blood Prince?" 
 
"The Half-Blood what?" 
 
"Prince," said Harry, watching him cl osely for signs of recogni-tion. 
 
"There are no Wizarding princes," said Lupin, now smiling. "Is this a title 
you re thinking of adopting? I should have thought be-ing 'the Chosen One' 
would be enough." 
 
"It's nothing to do with me!" said  Harry indignantly. "The Half-Blood 
Prince is someone who used to go to Hogwarts, I've got his old Potions 
book. He wrote spells all over it, spells he invented. One of them was 
Levicorpus —" 
 
"Oh, that one had a great vogue during my time at Hogwar ts," said Lupin 
reminiscently. "There were  a few months in my fifth year when you couldn't 
move for being hoisted into the air by your ankle." 
 
"My dad used it," said Harry. "I saw him in the Pensieve, he used it on 
Snape." 
 He tried to sound casual, as though th is was a throwaway com-ment of no 
real importance, but he was not sure he  had achieved the right effect; Lupins 
smile was a little too understanding. 
 
"Yes," he said, "but he wasn't the onl y one. As I say, it was very popular. . 
. . You know how these spe lls come and go. , . ." 
 
"But it sounds like it was invented while you were at school," Harry 
persisted. 
 
"Not necessarily," said Lupin. "Jinxes go in and out of fashion like 
everything else." 
 
He looked into Harry's face and then said quietly, "James was a 
pureblood, Harry, and I promise you, he ne ver asked us to call him 'Prince.'" 
 
Abandoning pretense, Harry said, "And it wasn't Sirius? Or you?" 
 
"Definitely not." 
 
"Oh." Harry stared into the fire. "I ju st thought — well, he's helped me out 
a lot in Potions classes, the Prince has." 
 
"How old is this book, Harry?" 
 
"I dunno, I've never checked." 
 "Well, perhaps that will give you some  clue as to when the Prince was at 
Hogwarts," said Lupin. 
 
Shortly after this, Fleur decided to imitate Celestina singing "A Cauldron 
Full of Hot, Strong Love," which was taken by everyone, once they had 
glimpsed Mrs. Weasley's expression, to  be the cue to go to bed. Harry and 
Ron climbed all the way up to Ron's attic bedroom, where a camp bed had 
been added for Harry. 
 
Ron fell asleep almost immediately, but Harry delved into his trunk and 
pulled out his copy of Advanced Poti on-Making before getting into bed. 
There he turned its pages, searching, unt il he finally found, at the front of the 
book, the date that it had been pub-lishe d. It was nearly fifty years old. 
Neither his father, nor his father's friends, had been at Hogwarts fifty years 
ago. Feeling disappointed, Harry threw the book back into his trunk, turned 
off the lamp, and rolled over, thinking  of werewolves and Snape, Stan 
Shunpike and the Half-Blood Prince, an d finally falling into an uneasy sleep 
full of creeping shadows and the cries of bitten children. . . . 
 
"She's got to be joking. . . ." 
 
Harry woke with a start to find a bulging stocking lying over the end of 
his bed. He put on his glasses a nd looked around; the tiny window was 
almost completely obscured with snow and, in front of it, Ron was sitting 
bolt upright in bed and examining what ap-peared to be a thick gold chain. 
 
"What's chat?" asked Harry. '  
"Its from Lavender," said Ron,  sounding revolted^ "She earn 
 
honestly think I'd wear ..." 
 
Harry looked more closely and le t out a shout of laughter, Dan 
 
gling from the chain in large gold letters were the words: 
 
  
 
“My sweetheart” 
 
  
 
"Nice," he said. "Classy. You should de finitely wear it in front ol Fred 
and George." 
 
"If you tell them," said Ron, shoving the necklace out of sight under his 
pillow, "I — I — I’ll —" 
 
"Stutter at me?" said Harry, grinning. "Come on, would I?" 
 
"How could she think I'd like so mething like that, though?" Ron 
demanded of thin air, looking rather shocked. 
 "Well, think back," said Harry. "Have you ever let it slip that you'd like to 
go out in public with the words 'My Sweetheart' round your neck?" 
 
"Well... we don't really talk much,"  said Ron. "It's mainly . . ." 
 
"Snogging," said Harry. 
 
"Well, yeah," said Ron. He hesitate d a moment, then said, "Is Hermione 
really going out with McLaggen?" 
 
"I dunno," said Harry. "They were at Slughorn's party together, but I don't 
think it went that well." 
 
Ron looked slightly more cheerful as he  delved deeper into his stocking. 
 
Harrys presents included a sweater with a large Golden Snitch worked 
onto the front, hand-knitted by Mrs. Weasley, a large box of Weasleys' 
Wizard Wheezes products from the tw ins, and a slightly damp, moldy-
smelling package that came with a labe l read-ing To Master, From Kreacher, 
 
Harry stared at it. "D'you reckon this is safe to open?" he asked. "Can't be 
anything dangerous, all our mail's still being searched at the Ministry," 
replied Ron, though he was ey eing the parcel suspiciously. 
 
"I didn't think of giving Kreacher a nything. Do people usually give their 
house-elves Christmas presents?" asked Harry, prodding the parcel cautiously.  
"Hermione would," said Ron. "But let' s wait and see what it is before you 
start feeling guilty." 
 
A moment later, Harry had given a loud yell and leapt out of his camp 
bed; the package containe d a large number of maggot s. "Nice," said Ron, 
roaring with laughter. "Very thoughtful. " "I'd rather have them than that 
necklace," said Harry, whic h sobered Ron up at once. 
 
Everybody was wearing new sweaters when they all sat down for 
Christmas lunch, everyone except Fleur (on whom, it appeared, Mrs. 
Weasley had not wanted to waste one) and Mrs. Weasley herself, who was 
sporting a brand-new midnight blue w itch's hat glittering with what looked 
like tiny starlike diamonds, and a spec-tacular golden necklace. 
 
"Fred and George gave them to me! Ar en't they beautiful?" .: "Well, we 
find we appreciate you more and more , Mum, now we're washing our own 
socks," said George, waving an airy hand. "Parsnips, Remus?" 
 
"Harry, you've got a maggot in your ha ir," said Ginny cheerfully, leaning 
across the table to pick it out; Harry felt goose bumps erupt up his neck that 
had nothing to do with the maggot. 
 
"'Ow 'orrible," said Fleur, w ith an affected little shudder. 
 
"Yes, isn't it?" said Ron. "Gravy, Fleur?" 
 . In his eagerness to help her, he knocked the gravy boat flying; Bill 
waved his wand and the gravy soared up in the air and returned meekly to 
the boat. 
 
"You are as bad as zat Tonks," said Fl eur to Ron, when she had finished 
kissing Bill in thanks. "S he is always knocking —" 
 
"I invited dear Tonks to come along today," said Mrs. Weasley, setting 
down the carrots with unnecessary force and glaring at Fleur. "But she 
wouldn't come. Have you spoken  to her lately, Remus?" 
 
"No, I haven't been in contact with anybody very much," said Lupin. "But 
Tonks has got her own family to go to, hasn't she?" 
 
"Hmmm," said Mrs. Weasley. "Ma ybe. I got the impression she was 
planning to spend Christmas alone, actually." 
 
She gave Lupin an annoyed look, as though it was all hi s fault she was 
getting Fleur for a daughter-in-law inst ead of Tonks, but Harry, glancing 
across at Fleur, who was now feeding B ill bits of turkey off her own fork, 
thought that Mrs. Weasley was fightin g a long-lost battle. He was, however, 
reminded of a question he had with re gard to Tonks, and who better to ask 
than Lupin, the man who knew all about Patronuses? 
 
"Tonks's Patronus has changed its form,"  he told him. "Snape said so 
anyway. I didn't know that could happen. Why woul d your Patronus 
change?"  
Lupin took his time chewing his tu rkey and swallowing before saying 
slowly, "Sometimes ... a great shock ... an emotional up-heaval ..." 
 
"It looked big, and it ha d four legs," said Harry, struck by a sud-den 
thought and lowering his voice. "Hey ... it couldn't be — ?" 
 
"Arthur!" said Mrs. Weasley suddenly.  She had risen from her chair; her 
hand was pressed over her heart and she was staring out of the kitchen 
window. "Arthur — it's Percy!" 
 
"What?" 
 
Mr. Weasley looked around. Everybody looked quickly at the window; 
Ginny stood up for a better look. There,  sure enough, was Percy Weasley, 
striding across the snowy yard, his horn-rimmed glasses glinting in the 
sunlight. He was not, however, alone. 
 
"Arthur, he's — he's with the Minister!" 
 
And sure enough, the man Harry ha d seen in the Daily Prophet was 
following along in Percy's wake, limping slightly, his mane of graying hair 
and his black cloak flecked with sno w. Before any of , them could say 
anything, before Mr. and Mrs. Weasle y could do : more than exchange 
stunned looks, the back door opened and there stood Percy. 
 There was a moment's pain ful silence. Then Percy said rather stiffly, 
"Merry Christmas, Mother." 
 
"Oh, Percy!" said Mrs. Weasley, a nd she threw herself into his arms. 
 
Rufus Scrimgeour paused in the door way, leaning on his walk-ing stick 
and smiling as he observed  this affecting scene. 
 
"You must forgive this intrusion," he said, when Mrs. Weasley looked 
around at him, beaming and wiping her eyes. "Percy and I were in the 
vicinity — working, you know — and he couldn't re-sist dropping in and 
seeing you all." 
 
But Percy showed no sign of wanting to greet any of the rest of the 
family. He stood, poker-straight and awkward-looking, and stared over 
everybody else's heads. Mr. Weasley, Fred, and George were all observing 
him, stony-faced. 
 
"Please, come in, sit down, Mini ster!" fluttered Mrs. Weasley, 
straightening her hat. Have  a little purkey, or some tooding. ... 1 '. mean —" 
 
"No, no, my dear Molly," said Sc rimgeour. Harry guessed that he had 
checked her name with Percy before th ey entered the house. "I don't want to 
intrude, wouldn't be here at all if Pe rcy hadn't wanted to see you all so badly. 
. . ." 
 
"Oh, Perce!" said Mrs. Weasley tearfully, reaching up to kiss him.  
". , . We've only looked in for five minutes, so I'll have a stroll around the 
yard while you catch up with Percy. No, no, I assure you I don't want to butt 
in! Well, if anybody cared to show me your charming garden . . . Ah, that 
young man's finished, why doesn't he take a stroll with me?" 
 
The atmosphere around the table ch anged perceptibly. Every-body looked 
from Scrimgeour to Harry. Nobody seemed to find Scrimgeour's pretense 
that he did not know Harry's name convi ncing, or find it  natural that he 
should be chosen to accompany the Mi nister around the garden when Ginny, 
Fleur, and George also had clean plates. 
 
"Yeah, all right," said Harry into the silence. 
 
He was not fooled; for all Scrimgeour's talk that they had just been in the 
area, that Percy wanted to look up his family, this must be the real reason 
that they had come, so that Scri mgeour could speak to Harry alone. 
 
"It's fine," he said quietly, as he pa ssed Lupin, who had half risen from his 
chair. "Fine," he added, as Mr. Weasley opened his mouth to speak. 
 
"Wonderful!" said Scrimgeour, st anding back to let Harry pass 
 
through the door ahead of him. "We'll just take a turn around the garden, 
and Percy and I'll be o ff. Carry on, everyone!" 
 Harry walked across the yard towa rd the Weasleys' overgrown, snow-
covered garden, Scrimgeour limping sl ightly at his side. He had, Harry 
knew, been Head of the Auror office;  he looked tough and battle-scarred, 
very different from portly Fudge in his bowler hat. 
 
"Charming," said Scrimgeour, stopping  at the garden fence and looking 
out over the snowy lawn and the indistinguishable plants. "Charming." 
 
Harry said nothing. He could tell th at Scrimgeour was watching him. 
 
"I've wanted to meet you for a very long time," said Scrimgeour, after a 
few moments. "Did you know that?" 
 
"No," said Harry truthfully. ¦!. 
 
"Oh yes, for a very long time. But Dumbledore has been very protective 
of you," said Scrimgeour. "Natural, of  course, natural, after what you've 
been through. . . . Especially wh at happened at : the Ministry ...": 
 
He waited for Harry to say something,  but Harry did not oblige, : so he 
went on, "I have been hoping for an o ccasion to talk to you ever since I 
gained office, but Dumbledore has — most under-standably, as I say — 
prevented this." 
 
Still, Harry said nothing, waiting. 
 "The rumors that have flown around!" said Scrimgeour. "Well, of course, 
we both know how these stories get distorted ... all these whispers of a 
prophecy . . . of you being 'the Chosen One'. . ." 
 
They were getting near it now, Harry thought, the reason Scrim-geour was 
here. 
 
“I assume that Dumbledore has discussed these matters with you?", 
 
Harry deliberated, wondering whether he  ought to lie or not. He looked at 
the little gnome prints all around the flowerbeds, ami the scuffed-up patch 
that marked the spot where Fred had caught the gnome now wearing the tutu 
at the top of the Christmas tree. Finally , he decided on the truth ... or a bit of 
it. 
 
"Yeah, we've discussed it." 
 
"Have you, have you . . ." said Scri mgeour. Harry could see, out of the 
corner of his eye, Scrimgeour squinting at him, so he pre-tended to be very 
interested in a gnome that had just poked its head out from underneath a 
frozen rhododendron. "And what has Dumbledore told you, Harry?" 
 
"Sorry, but that's between us," said Harry. He kept his voice as pleasant as 
he could, and Scrimgeour's tone, too, was light and friendly as he said, "Oh, 
of course, if it's a question of confiden ces, I wouldn't want you to divulge . . 
. no, no ... and in any case, does it rea lly matter whether you are 'the Chosen 
One' or not?"  
Harry had to mull that one over for a few seconds before  re-sponding. "I 
don't really know what you mean, Minister." 
 
"Well, of course, to you it will matter enormously,"  said Scrim-geour with 
a laugh. "But to the Wizarding community  at large . . . it's all perception, 
isn't it? It's what people believe that's important." 
 
Harry said nothing. He thought he saw, dimly, where they were heading, 
but he was not going to help Scri mgeour get there. The gnome under the 
rhododendron was now digging for worms at its roots, and Harry kept his 
eyes fixed upon it. 
 
"People believe you are 'the Chosen One,' you see," said Scrim-geour. 
"They think you quite the hero — which,  of course, you arc, Harry, chosen 
or not! How many times have you faced He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named 
now? Well, anyway," he pressed on, wi thout waiting for a reply, "the point 
is, you are a symbol of hope lor ma ny, Harry. The idea that there is 
somebody out there who might be able , who might even be destined, to 
destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named — well, naturally, it gives people a 
lift. And I can't help but feel that, once you realize this, you might consider 
it, well, almost a duty, to stand alongside the Ministry, and give everyone a 
boost." 
 
The gnome had just manage d to get hold of a worm. It was now tugging 
very hard on it, trying to get it out of  the frozen ground. Harry was silent so long that Scrimgeour said, looking from Harry to the gnome, "Funny little 
chaps, aren't they? Bu t what say you, Harry?" 
 
"I don't exactly understand what you wa nt," said Harry slowly. '"Stand 
alongside the Ministry' . . . What does that mean?" 
 
"Oh, well, nothing at all onerous, I assure you," said Scri m-geour. "If you 
were to be seen popping in and out of the Ministry from time to time, for 
instance, that would give the right impres-sion. And of course, while you 
were there, you would have ample : opportunity to speak to Gawain 
Robards, my successor as Head of th e Auror office. Dolores Umbridge has 
told me that you cherish an ambition to  become an Auror.  Well, that could 
be arranged very easily. ..." 
 
Harry felt anger bubbling in the pit of his stomach: So Dolores Umbridge 
was still at the Ministry, was she? 
 
"So basically," he said, as though he just wanted to clarify a few points, 
"you'd like to give the impression that I'm working for the Ministry?" 
 
"It would give everyone a lift to think you were more involved, Harry," 
said Scrimgeour, sounding relieved that Harry had cot-toned on so quickly. "'The Chosen One,' you know. . . It's all about giving people hope, the 
feeling that exciting things are hap-pening. ..." 
 "But if I keep running in and out of the Ministry," said Harry, still 
endeavoring to keep his voice friendly,  "won't that seem as though I approve 
of what the Ministry's up to?" 
 
"Well," said Scrimgeour, frowning slight ly, "well, yes, th at's partly why 
we'd like —" 
 
"No, I don't think that'll work," said  Harry pleasantly. "You see, I don't 
like some of the things the Ministry's doing. Locking up Stan Shunpike, for 
instance." 
 
Scrimgeour did not speak for a mome nt but his expression hard-ened 
instantly. "I would not expect you to un derstand," he said, and he was not as 
successful at keeping anger out of his voice as Harry had been. "These are 
dangerous times, and certain measures need to be taken. You are sixteen 
years old —" 
 
"Dumbledore's a lot older than sixteen, and he doesn't think Stan should 
be in Azkaban either," sa id Harry. "You're making Stan a scapegoat, just like 
you want to make me a mascot." 
 
They looked at each other, long and hard. Finally Scrimgeour said, with 
no pretense at warmth, "I see. You pr efer — like your hero, Dumbledore — 
to disassociate yourself from the Ministry?"  "I don't want to be used," said 
Harry. 
 "Some would say it's your duty to be used by the Ministry!" "Yeah, and 
others might say its your duty to check  that people really are Death Eaters 
before you chuck them in prison," said  Harry, his temper rising now. "You're 
doing what Barty Crouch 
 
did. You never get it right, you peopl e, do you? Either we've got Fudge, 
pretending everything's lovely while people get murdered right under his 
nose, or we've got you, chucking the wrong people into jail and trying to 
pretend you've got 'the Chosen One' work-ing for you!" ' i 
 
"So you're not 'the Chosen One'?" said Scrimgeour. ' 
 
"I thought you said it didn' t matter either way?" sa id Harry, with a bitter 
laugh. "Not to you anyway." 
 
"I shouldn't have said that," said Scrimgeour quickly. "It was tactless —" 
 
"No, it was honest," said Harry. "O ne of the only honest things you've 
said to me. You don't care whether I live or die, but you do care that I help 
you convince everyone you're winning th e war against Voldemort. I haven't 
forgotten, Minister...." 
 
He raised his right fist. There, shini ng white on the back of his cold hand, 
were the scars which Dolores Umbridge had forced him to carve into his 
own flesh: I must not tell lies. 
 "I don't remember you rushing to my defense when I was trying to tell 
everyone Voldemort was back. The Ministry wasn't so keen to be pals last 
year." 
 
They stood in silence as icy as the ground beneath thei r feet. The gnome 
had finally managed to extricate his worm and was now sucking on it happily, leaning against the bottommos t branches of the rhododendron bush. 
 
"What is Dumbledore up to?" said Sc rimgeour brusquely . "Where does he 
go when he is absent from Hogwarts?" 
 
"No idea," said Harry. 
 
"And you wouldn't tell me if you knew,"  said Scrimgeour, "would you?" 
 
"No, 1 wouldn't," said Harry. 
 
"Well, then, I shall have to see wh ether I can't find out by other means." 
 
"You can try," said Harry indifferently. "But you seem cleverer than 
Fudge, so I'd have thought you'd have learned from his mis-takes. He tried 
interfering at Hogwarts. You might have  noticed he's not Minister anymore, 
but Dumbledore’s still headmaster. I'd leave Dumbledore alone, if I were 
you." 
 
There was a long pause. 
 "Well, it is clear to me that he ha s done a very good job on you," said 
Scrimgeour, his eyes cold and ha rd behind his wire-rimmed glasses, 
"Dumbledore’s man through and through, aren't you, Potter?" 
 
"Yeah, I am," said Harry. "Gla d we straightened that out." 
 
And turning his back on the Minister of Magic, he strode back toward the 
house. 
CHAPTER 17
 
 
Late in the afternoon, a few days after New Year, Harry, Ron, and Ginny 
lined up beside the kitchen fire to return to Hogwarts. The Ministry had 
arranged this one-off connection to th e Floo Network to return students 
quickly and safely to the school. Only  Mrs. Weasley was there to say good-
bye, as Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, Bill , and Fleur were all at work. Mrs. 
Weasley dissolved into tears at the moment of parting. Admittedly, it took 
very little to set her off lately; she had been crying on and off ever since 
Percy had stormed from the house on Christmas Day with his glasses 
splattered with mashed parsnip (fo r which Fred, George, and Ginny all 
claimed credit). 
 
"Don't cry, Mum," said Ginny, patting her on the back as Mrs. Weasley 
sobbed into her should er. "It's okay. ..." 
 
"Yeah, don't worry about us," said Ron, permitting his mother to plant a 
very wet kiss on his cheek, "or about Percy. He's such a prat, it's not really a 
loss, is it?" 
 
Mrs. Weasley sobbed harder than ever as she enfolded Harry in her arms. 
 
"Promise me you'll look after yourself .. .. Stay out of trouble. ..." 
 
"I always do, Mrs. Weasley," said Harry. "I like a quiet life, you know 
me."  
She gave a watery chuc kle and stood back. "Be good,  then, all of you. ..." 
 
Harry stepped into the emerald fire and shouted "Hogwarts!" He had one 
last fleeting view of the Weasleys' k itchen and Mrs. Weasley's tearful face 
before the flames engulfed him; sp inning very fast, he caught blurred 
glimpses of other Wizarding rooms, whic h were whipped out of sight before 
he could get a proper look; then he  was slowing down, finally stopping 
squarely in the fireplace in Professo r McGonagall's office. She barely 
glanced up from her work as he clambered out over the grate. 
 
"Evening, Potter. Try not to ge t too much ash on the carpet." 
 
"No, Professor." 
 
Harry straightened his glasses and fla ttened his hair as Ron came spinning 
into view. When Ginny had arrived, all three of them trooped out of 
McGonagall's office and off toward Gr yffindor Tower. Harry glanced out of 
the corridor windows as they passed; the sun was already sinking over grounds carpeted in deeper snow than had lain over the Burrow garden. In 
the distance, he could see Hagrid feed ing Buckbeak in front of his cabin. 
 
"Baubles," said Ron confidently, wh en they reached the Fat Lady, who 
was looking rather paler than usual and winced at his loud voice. 
 
"No," she said. 
 “What d’you mean, ‘no’ ? 
 
"There is a new password," she said. "And please don't shout." 
 
"But we've been away, how 're we supposed to — ?" 
 
"Harry! Ginny!" 
 
Hermione was hurrying toward them , very pink-faced and wearing a 
cloak, hat, and gloves. 
 
"I got back a couple of hours ago, I've just been down to visit Hagrid and 
Buck — I mean Witherwings," she said breathlessly. "Did you have a good 
Christmas?" 
 
"Yeah," said Ron at once, "pretty ev entful, Rufus Scri m —" ] "I've got 
something for you, Harry,"  said Hermione, neither looking at Ron nor giving 
any sign that she had heard him. "Oh, hang on — password. Abstinence." 
 
"Precisely," said the Fat Lady in a feeble voice, and swung forward to 
reveal the portrait hole. 
 
"What's up with her?" asked Harry. 
 
"Overindulged over Christmas, appare ntly," said Hermione, rolling her 
eyes as she led the way into the p acked common room. "She and her friend Violet drank their way through all the wine in that picture of drunk monks 
down by the Charms corridor. Anyway..." 
 
She rummaged in her pocket for a mo ment, then pulled out a scroll of 
parchment with Dumbledore's writing on it. 
 
"Great," said Harry, unrolling it at once to discover that his next lesson 
with Dumbledore was scheduled for the following night. "I’ve got loads to 
tell him — and you. Let's sit down —" 
 
But at that moment there was a loud squeal of "Won-Won!" and Lavender 
Brown came hurtling out of  nowhere and flung herself into Ron's arms. 
Several onlookers snigge red; Hermione gave a tinkling laugh and said, 
"There's a cable over here... Coming. Ginny?" 
 
 
"No, thanks, I said I'd meet Dean," said Ginny, though Harry could not 
help noticing that she did not sound very enthusiastic. Leaving Ron and 
Lavender locked in a kind of vertical wrestling, match, Ha rry led Hermione 
over to the spare table. 
 
"So how was your Christmas?" 
 
"Oh, fine," she shrugged. "Nothing special. How was it at Won-Won's?" 
 
"I'll tell you in a minute," said Harry. "Look, Hermi one, can't you —" 
 "No, I can't," she said fl atly. "So don't even ask." 
 
"I thought maybe, you know, over Christmas —" 
 
"It was the Fat Lady who drank a va t of five-hundred-year-old wine, 
Harry, not me. So what was this impor tant news you wanted to tell me?" 
 
She looked too fierce to argue with at  that moment, so Harry dropped the 
subject of Ron and recounted all that  he had overheard between Malfoy and 
Snape. When he had finished, Hermi one sat in thought for a moment and 
then said, "Don't you think — ?" 
 
"— he was pretending to offer help so that he could trick Malfoy into 
telling him what he's doing?" 
 
"Well, yes," said Hermione. 
 
"Ron’s dad and Lupin think so," Ha rry said grudgingly. "But this 
definitely proves Malfoy’ s planning something, you can't deny that." 
 
"No, I can't," she answered slowly. 
 
"And he's acting on Voldemort's orders, just like I said!" 
 
"Hmm .. . did either of them actually mention Voldemort's name?" 
 Harry frowned, trying to remember. "I'm  not sure ... Snape definitely said 
'your master,' and who else would that be?" 
 
"I don't know," said Hermione, biti ng her lip. "Maybe his father?" 
 
She stared across the room, apparently  lost in thought, not even noticing 
Lavender tickling Ron.  "How's Lupin?" 
 
"Not great," said Harry, and he told  her all about Lupin’s mission among 
the werewolves and the difficulties he was facing. "Have you heard of this 
Fenrir Greyback?" 
 
"Yes, I have!" said Hermione, s ounding startled. "And so have you, 
Harry!" 
 
"When, History of Magic? You know  full well I never listened ..." 
 
"No, no, not History of Magic — Ma lfoy threatened Borgin with Kim!" 
said Hermione. "Back in Knockturn Alley, don't you remember? He told 
Borgin that Greyback was an old fam ily friend and that he'd be checking up 
on Borgin's progress!" 
 
Harry gaped at her. "I forgot! But th is proves Malfoy s a Death Eater, how 
else could he be in contact with Greyback and telling him what to do?" 
 
"It is pretty suspicious," breathed He rmione. "Unless . . ." "Oh, come on," 
said Harry in exasperation, " you can't get round this one!"  
"Well . . . there is the possibility it was an empty threat." "You're 
unbelievable, you are," said Harry, shaking his head. 
 
"We'll see who's right. . . . You'll be  eating your words, Hermione, just 
like the Ministry. Oh yeah, 1 had a row w ith Rufus Scrimgeour as well. . . ." 
 
And the rest of the evening passed am icably with both of them abusing 
the Minister of Magic, for Hermione, like Ron, thought that after all the 
Ministry had put Harry through the prev ious year, they had a great deal of 
nerve asking him for help now. 
 
The new term started next morning w ith a pleasant surprise for the sixth 
years: a large sign had been pinned to the common room notice boards 
overnight. 
 
  
 
APPARITION LESSONS 
 
If you are seventeen years of age, or will turn seventeen on or before the 
31st August next, you are eligible for a twelve-week course of Apparition 
Lessons from a Ministry of Magic A pparition instructor. Please sign below 
if you would like to participate. Cost: 12 Galleons. 
 
  
 Harry and Ron joined the crowd that was jostling around the notice and 
taking it in turns to write their names at  the bottom. Ron was just taking out 
his quill to sign after He rmione when Lavender crept up behind him, slipped 
her hands over his eyes, and trilled, "Guess who, Won-Won?" Harry turned 
to see Hermione stalking off; he caught  up with her, having no wish to stay 
behind with Ron and Lavende r, but to his surprise, Ron caught up with them 
only a little way beyond the portrait hole, his ears bright red and his 
expression disgruntled. Without a wo rd, Hermione sped up to walk with 
Neville. 
 
"So — Apparition," said R on, his tone making it pe rfectly plain that Harry 
was not to mention what had just happened. "Should be a laugh, eh?" 
 
"I dunno," said Harry. "Maybe it's be tter when you do it yourself, I didn’t 
enjoy it much when Dumbledore took me along for the ride." 
 
"I forgot you'd already done it. ... I'd better pass my test first 
 
time," said Ron, looking anxious. "Fre d and George did," "Charlie failed, 
though, didn't he?" "Yeah, but Charlie 's bigger than me" — Ron held his 
arms out from his body as though he was a gorilla — "so Fred and George 
 
didn't go on about it much . . . not to  his face anyway . . ." "When can we 
take the actual test?" "Soon as we're seventeen. That's only March for me!" 
"Yeah, but you wouldn't be ab le to Apparate in here, not in the castle . . ." 
 
"Not the point, is it? Everyone would know I could Apparate  if I wanted."  
Ron was not the only one to be excited at the prospect of Apparition. All 
that day there was much talk about the forthcoming , lessons; a great deal of 
store was set by being able to vanish and reappear at will. 
 
"How cool will it be when we can just  —" Seamus clicked his ringers to 
indicate disappearance. "M e cousin Fergus does it  just to annoy me, you 
wait till I can do it back. . . He'll never ha ve another peaceful moment. . . ." 
 
Lost in visions of this happy prospect, he flicked his wand a little too 
enthusiastically, so that instead of producing the fountain of pure water that 
was the object of today's Charms less on, he let out a hoselike jet that 
ricocheted off the ceiling and knocked Professor Flitwick flat on his face. 
 
"Harry’s already Apparate d," Ron told a slightly  abashed Seamus, after 
Professor Flitwick had dried himself o ff with a wave of his wand and set 
Seamus lines: "I am a wizard, not a ba boon brandishing a stick." "Dum — er 
— someone took him. Side-Along-Apparition, you know." 
 
"Whoa!" whispered Seamus , and he, Dean, and Nev ille put their heads a 
little closer to hear what Apparition felt  like. For the rest of the day, Harry 
was besieged with requests from the other sixth years to describe the 
sensation of Apparition. A ll of them seemed awed, ra ther than put off, when 
he told them how uncomfortable it wa s, and he was still answering detailed 
questions at ten to eight that evening, when he was forced to lie and say that 
he needed to return a book to the library, so as to escape in time for his 
lesson with Dumbledore.  
The lamps in Dumbledore’s office were  lit, the portraits of previous 
headmasters were snoring gently in their frames, and the Pen-sieve was 
ready upon the desk once more. Dumbledore ’s hands lay on either side of it, 
the right one as blackened and burnt-looking as ever. It did not seem to have 
healed at all and Harry wondered, for perhaps the hundredth time, what had 
caused such a distinctive injury, but di d not ask; Dumbledore had said that 
he would know eventually and there wa s, in any case, another subject he 
wanted to discuss. But before Harry  could say anything about Snape and 
Malfoy, Dumbledore spoke. 
 
"I hear that you met the Minister of Magic over Christmas?" "Yes," said 
Harry. "He's not very happy with me." 
 
"No," sighed Dumbledore. "He is not ve ry happy with me either. We must 
try not to sink beneath our anguish, Harry, but battle on." 
 
Harry grinned. 
 
"He wanted me to tell the Wizarding community that the Ministry's doing 
a wonderful job.' 
 
Dumbledore smiled. 
 
"It was Fudge's idea originally, you know . During his last days in office, 
when he was trying desperately to cling to his post, he sought a meeting with 
you, hoping that you would give him your  
support —" 
 
"After everything Fudge did last y ear?" said Harry angrily. "After 
Umbridge ?” 
 
"I told Cornelius there was no chance of it, but the idea did not die when 
he left: office. Within hours of Scri mgeour's appointment we met and he 
demanded that I arrange a meeting with you —" 
 
"So that's why you argued!" Harry blurted out. "It was in the Daily 
Prophet"' 
 
"The Prophet is bound to report the tr uth occasionally," said Dumbledore, 
"if only accidentally. Yes, that was w hy we argued. Well, it appears that 
Rufus found a way to corner you at last." 
 
"He accused me of being 'Dumbl edore's man through and through.'" 
 
"How very rude of him." 
 
"I told him I was." 
 
Dumbledore opened his mouth to speak and then closed it again. Behind 
Harry, Fawkes the phoenix let out a lo w, soft, musical cry. To Harry’s 
intense embarrassment, he suddenly realized 
 that Dumbledore's bright blue eyes  looked rather watery, ami stared 
hastily at his own knees. When Dumbledore spoke, however, his voice was 
quite steady. 
 
"I am very touched, Harry." 
 
"Scrimgeour wanted to know where you go when you're not at Hogwarts," 
said Harry, still looking fixedly at his knees. 
 
"Yes, he is very nosy about th at," said Dumbledore, now sounding 
cheerful, and Harry thought it safe to look up again. "He has even attempted 
to have me followed. Amusing, really. He set Dawlish to tail me. It wasn't 
kind. I have already been forced to jin x Dawlish once; I did it again with the 
greatest regret." 
 
"So they still don't know where you go?" asked Harry, hoping for more 
information on this intriguing subject, but Dumbledore merely smiled over the top of his half-moon spectacles. 
 
"No, they don't, and the time is not quite right for you to know either. 
Now, I suggest we press on, unless ther e's anything else — ?" "There is, 
actually, sir," said Harry. "It's about Malfoy and Snape." 
 
"Professor Snape, Harry." 
 
"Yes, sir. I overheard them during Prof essor Slughorns party . . . well, I 
followed them, actually. ..."  
Dumbledore listened to Harry's story w ith an impassive face. When Harry 
had finished he did not speak for a fe w moments, then sa id, "Thank you for 
telling me this, Harry, but I suggest that you put it out of your mind. I do not 
think that it is of great importance." 
 
"Not of great importance?" repeated Harry incredulously. "Professor, did 
you understand — ?" 
 
"Yes, Harry, blessed as I am with extraordinary brainpower, I understood 
everything you told me," said Dumble dore, a little sharply. "I think you 
might even consider the possibility that I understood more than you did. 
Again, I am glad that you have con-lided  in me, but let me reassure you that 
you have not told me anything that causes me disquiet." 
 
Harry sat in seething silence, glari ng at Dumbledore. What was going on? 
Did this mean that Dumbledore had i ndeed ordered Snape to find out what 
Malfoy was doing, in which case he ha d already heard everything Harry had 
just told him from Snape? Or was he re ally worried by what he had heard, 
but pretending not to be? 
 
"So, sir," said Harry, in what he hoped was a polite, calm voice, "you 
definitely still trust — ?" 
 
"I have been tolerant enough to answer that question already," said 
Dumbledore, but he did not sound very tolerant anymore. "My answer has 
not changed."  
"I should think not," said a snide voice; Phineas Nigellus was evidently 
only pretending to be asl eep. Dumbledore ignored him. 
 
"And now, Harry, I must insist that we press on. I have  more important 
things to discuss with you this evening." 
 
Harry sat there feeling mutinous. How w ould it be if he refused to permit 
the change of subject, if he insisted  upon arguing the case against Malfoy? 
As though he had read Harry's mind, Dumbledore shook his head. 
 
"Ah, Harry, how often this happens, even between the best of friends! 
Each of us believes that what he has to say is much more important than 
anything the other might have to contribute!" 
 
"I don't think what you've got to say is unimportant, sir," said Harry 
stiffly. 
 
"Well, you are quite right, because it is not," said Dumbledore briskly. "I 
have two more memories to show yo u this evening, both obtained with 
enormous difficulty, and the second of th em is, 1 think, the most important I 
have collected." 
 
Harry did not say anything to this; he  still felt angry at the reception his 
confidences had received, but could not see what was to be gained by 
arguing further. 
 "So," said Dumbledore, in a ringing voice, "we meet this evening to 
continue the tale of Tom Riddle, whom  we left last lesson poised on the 
threshold of his years at Hogwarts. You will remember how excited he was 
to hear that he was a wizard, that he refused my company on a trip to Diagon 
Alley, and that I, in turn, warned hi m against continued thievery when he 
arrived at school. 
 
"Well, the start of the school year a rrived and with it came Tom Riddle, a 
quiet boy in his secondhand ro bes, who lined up with the other first years to 
be sorted. He was placed in Slytheri n House almost the moment that the 
Sorting Hat touched his head," continued Dumbledore, waving his 
blackened hand toward the shelf over hi s head where the Sorting Hat sat, 
ancient and unmoving. "How soon Riddle learned that the famous founder of 
the House could talk to snakes, I do not  know — perhaps that very evening. 
The knowledge can only have  excited him and increased his sense of self-
importance. 
 
"However, if he was frightening or impressing fellow Slytherins with 
displays of Parseltongue in their co mmon room, no hint of it reached the 
staff. He showed no sign of outward a rrogance or aggression at all. As an 
unusually talented and ve ry good-looking orphan, he naturally drew 
attention and sympathy from the staff almo st from the moment of his arrival. 
He seemed police, quiet, and thirsty for knowledge. Nearly all were most 
favorably impressed by him." 
 
"Didn't you tell them, sir, what he'd  been like when you met him at the 
orphanage?" asked Harry.  
"No, I did not. Though he had shown no hint of remorse, it was possible 
that he felt sorry for how he had beha ved before and was resolved to turn 
over a fresh leaf. I chose to  give him that chance." 
 
Dumbledore paused and looked inquirin gly at Harry, who had opened his 
mouth to speak. Here, again, was Dumb ledore's tendency to trust people in 
spite of overwhelming evid ence that they did not de serve it! But then Harry 
remembered something. . . . 
 
"But you didn't really trust him, sir, did you? He told me . . . the Riddle 
who came out of that diary said, 'Dum bledore never seemed to like me as 
much as the other teachers did.'" 
 
"Let us say that I did no t take it for granted that he was trustworthy," said 
Dumbledore. "I had, as I have already indicated, resolved to  keep a close eye 
upon him, and so I did. I cannot pretend that I gleaned a great deal from my 
observations at first. He was very guarded  with me; he felt, I am sure, that in 
the thrill of discovering his true identity  he had told me a little too much. He 
was careful never to reveal as much again, but he could not take back what 
he had let slip in his excitement, nor what Mrs. Cole had confided in me. 
However, he had the sense never to try and charm me as he charmed so 
many of my colleagues. 
 
"As he moved up the school, he gather ed about him a group of dedicated 
friends; I call them that, for want of a better term, although as I have already 
indicated, Riddle undoubtedly felt no affection for any of them. This group had a kind of dark glamour within th e castle. They were a motley collection; 
a mixture of the weak seeking protecti on, the ambitious seeking some shared 
glory, and the thuggish gravitating to ward a leader who could show them 
more refined forms of cruelty. In other words, they were the forerunners of 
the Death Eaters, and indeed some of  them became the first Death Eaters 
after leaving Hogwarts. 
 
"Rigidly controlled by Riddle, they  were never detected in open 
wrongdoing, although their seven years at Hogwarts were marked by a 
number of nasty incidents to which they  were never satisfactorily linked, the 
most serious of which was, of co urse, the opening of the Chamber of 
Secrets, which resulted in the deat h of a girl. As you know, Hagrid was 
wrongly accused of that crime. 
 
"I have not been able to find many me mories of Riddle at Hogwarts," said 
Dumbledore, placing his withered ha nd on the Pensieve. "Few who knew 
him then are prepared to talk about him; they are too terri fied. What I know, 
I found out after he had le ft Hogwarts, after much painstaking effort, after 
tracing those few who could be tricked into speaking, after searching old 
records and questioning Muggle and wizard witnesses alike. 
 
"Those whom I could persuade to talk  told me that Riddle was obsessed 
with his parentage. This is understandabl e, of course; he had grown up in an 
orphanage and naturally wished to know how he came to be there. It seems that he searched in vain for some tr ace of Tom Riddle senior on the shields 
in the trophy room, on the lists of prefect s in the old school records, even in 
the books of Wizarding history. Finally  he was forced to accept that his father had never set foot in Hogwarts. I believe th at it was then that he 
dropped the name forever, assumed the identity of Lord Volde-mort, and 
began his investigations into his previo usly despised mother's family — the 
woman whom, you will remember, he had thought could not be a witch if 
she had succumbed to the shamef ul human weakness of death. 
 
"All he had to go upon was the singl e name 'Marvolo,' which he knew 
from those who ran the orphanage had been his mother's  father's name. 
Finally, after painstaking research, through old books of Wizarding families, 
he discovered the existence of Slytheri n's surviving line. In the summer of 
his sixteenth year, he left the orphana ge to which he re turned annually and 
set off to find his Gaunt relatives. And now, Harry, if you will stand ..." : 
 
Dumbledore rose, and Harry saw that  he was again holding a. small 
crystal bottle filled with swirling, pearly memory. 
 
"I was very lucky to collect this," he  said, as he poured the gleaming mass 
into the Pensieve. "As you  will understand when we  have experienced it. 
Shall we?" 
 
Harry stepped up to the stone basin and bowed obediently until his face 
sank through the surface of the memory; he felt th e familiar sensation of 
falling through nothingness and then la nded upon a dirty stone floor in 
almost total darkness. 
 
It took him several seconds to r ecognize the place, by which time 
Dumbledore had landed beside him.  The Gaunts' house was now more indescribably filthy than anywhere Harry had ev er seen. The ceiling was 
thick with cobwebs, the floor coated in grime; moldy a nd rotting food lay 
upon the table amidst a mass of cruste d pots. The only light came from a 
single guttering candle placed at the feet  of a man with hair and beard so 
overgrown Harry could see neither eyes  nor mouth. He was slumped in an 
armchair by the fire, and Harry wonde red for a moment whether he was 
dead. But 
 
then there came a loud knock on th e door and the man jerked awake, 
raising a wand in his right hand and a short knife in his left. 
 
The door creaked open. There on the th reshold, holding an old-fashioned 
lamp, stood a boy Harry recognized at once: tall, pale, dark-haired, and 
handsome — the teenage Voldemort. 
 
Voldemort's eyes moved slowly ar ound the hovel and then found the man 
in the armchair. For a few seconds they looked at e ach other, then the man 
staggered upright, the many empty bottles at his feet clattering and tinkling 
across the floor. 
 
"YOU!" he bellowed. "YOU!" 
 
And he hurtled drunkenly at Riddle,  wand and knife held aloft. 
 
"Stop." 
 Riddle spoke in Parseltongue. The ma n skidded into the table, sending 
moldy pots crashing to the floor. He stared at Riddle. There was a long 
silence while they contemplated each other. The man broke it. 
 
"You speak it?" 
 
"Yes, I speak it," said Riddle. He m oved forward into the room, allowing 
the door to swing shut behind him. Harry  could not help but feel a resentful 
admiration for Voldemort's complete lack  of fear. His race  merely expressed 
disgust and, perhaps, disappointment. 
 
"Where is Marvolo?" he asked. 
 
"Dead," said the other. "D ied years ago, didn't he?" 
 
Riddle frowned. 
 
"Who are you, then?" 
 
"I’m Morfin, ain't I?" 
 
"Marvolo's son?" 
 
"'Course I am, then..." • ,, . 
 
Morfin pushed the hair out of his dirt y face, the better to see Riddle, and 
Harry saw that he wore Marvolo's black-stoned ring on his right hand.  
"I thought you was that Muggle," whispered Morfin. "You look mighty 
like that Muggle." 
 
"What Muggle?" said Riddle sharply. 
 
"That Muggle what my sister took a fa ncy to, that Muggle what lives in 
the big house over the way," said Morfi n, and he spat unexpectedly upon the 
floor between them. "You look right like  him. Riddle. But he's older now, in 
'e? He's older'n you, now I think on it. ..." 
 
Morfin looked slightly dazed and sway ed a little, still clutching the edge 
of the table for support. "He come  back, see," he added stupidly. 
 
Voldemort was gazing at Morfin as though appraising his possibilities. 
Now he moved a little closer an d said, "Riddle came back?" 
 
"Ar, he left her, and se rve her right, marrying filth!" said Morfin, spitting 
on the floor again. "Robbed us, mind, before she ran off. , Where's the 
locket, eh, where's Slytherin's locket?" 
 
Voldemort did not answer. Morfin was working himself into a rage again; 
he brandished his knife and shouted, "Dishonored us, , she did, that little 
slut! And whore you, coming here and as king questions about all that? It's 
over, innit. . . . It's over. ..." 
 He looked away, staggering slightly, and Voldemort moved forward. As 
he did so, an unnatural darkness fell, extinguishing Voldemort's lamp and 
Morfin's candle, extinguishing everything . . . . Dumbledore's fingers closed 
tightly around Harry's arm and they we re soaring back into the present 
again. The soft golden lig ht in Dumbledore's office seemed to dazzle Harry's 
eyes after that impenetrable darkness.  
 
"Is that all?" said Harry at once. "Why did it go dark, what happened?" 
 
"Because Morfin could not remember anything from that point onward," 
said Dumbledore, gesturing Harry back into his seat. "When he awoke next 
morning, he was lying on the floor, quite alone. Marvolo's ring had gone. 
 
"Meanwhile, in the village of Little Hangleton, a maid was running along 
the High Street, screaming that there we re three bodies lying in the drawing 
room of the big house: Tom Riddle Se nior and his mother and father. 
 
"The Muggle authorities were  perplexed. As far as I am aware, they do 
not know to this day how the Riddles died, for the Avadu Kedavra curse does not usually leave any sign of damage. . . . The exception sits before 
me," Dumbledore added, with a nod to Harry's scar. "The Ministry, on the 
other hand, knew at once that this wa s a wizard's murder. They also knew 
that a convicted Muggle-hater lived acr oss the valley from the Riddle house, 
a Muggle-hater who had already been im prisoned once for attacking one of 
the murdered people. 
 "So the Ministry called upon Morfin. They did not need to question him, 
to use Veritaserum or Legilimency. He  admitted to the murder on the spot, 
giving details only the murderer could know. He was proud, he said, to have 
killed the Muggles, had been awaiting hi s chance all these years. He handed 
over his wand, which was proved at once to have been used to kill the 
Riddles. And he permitted himself to be  led off to Azkaban without a fight. 
 
All that disturbed him was the fact that his fathers ring had disappeared. 
'He'll kill me for losing it,' he told his captors over and over again. 'He'll kill 
me for losing his ring.' And that, appare ntly, was all he ever said again. He 
lived out the remainder of his life in Azkaban, lamenting the loss of 
Marvolo's last heirloom, and is buried beside the prison, alongside the other 
poor souls who have expi red within its walls." 
 
"So Voldemort stole Morfin's wand and used it?" said Harry, sitting up 
straight. 
 
"That's right," said Dumbledore. "We have no memories to show us this, 
but I think we can be fairly sure wh at happened. Voldemort Stupefied his 
uncle, took his wand, and pr oceeded across the valley to 'the big house over 
the way.' There he murd ered the Muggle man who had abandoned his witch 
mother, and, for good measure, his Mu ggle grandparents, thus obliterating 
the last of the unworthy Riddle line and revenging himself upon the father 
who never wanted him. Then he return ed to the Gaunt hovel, performed the 
complex bit of magic that would implan t a false memory in his uncle's mind, 
laid Morfin's wand beside its unconscious owner, pocketed the ancient ring 
he wore, and departed."  
"And Morfin never realiz ed he hadn't done it?" 
 
"Never," said Dumbledore. "He ga ve, as I say, a full and boastful 
confession." 
 
"But he had this real memory in him all the time!" "Y es, but it took a 
great deal of skilled Legilimency to coax it out of him," said Dumbledore, 
"and why should anybody delve further into Morfin's mind when he had 
already confessed to the crime? Howeve r, I was able to secure a visit to 
Morfin in the last weeks of his life , by which time I was attempting to 
discover as much as I could about Vold emort's past. I extracted this memory 
with difficulty. When I saw what it contai ned, I attempted to use it to secure 
Morfin's release from Azkaban. Before the Ministry reached their decision, 
however, Morfin had died." 
 
"But how come the Ministry didn't realize that Voldemort had done all 
that to Morfin?" Harry asked angrily "He was underage at the time, wasn't 
he? I thought they could detect unde rage magic!" "You are quite right — 
they can detect magic, but not the pe rpetrator: You will remember that you 
were blamed by the Ministry for the Hove r Charm that was, in fact, cast by 
—" 
 
"Dobby," growled Harry; this injustice still rankled. "So if you're 
underage and you do magic inside an  adult witch or wizard's house, the 
Ministry won't know?" 
 "They will certainly be unable to te ll who performed the magic," said 
Dumbledore, smiling slightly at the look of great indignation on Harrys face. 
"They rely on witch and wizard parents to enforce their offspring's 
obedience while within their walls." 
 
"Well, that's rubbish," snapped Harry. "Look what happened here, look 
what happened to Morfin!" 
 
"I agree," said Dumbledore. "Whateve r Morfin was, he did not deserve to 
die as he did, blamed for murders he had not committed. But it is getting 
late, and I want you to see this ot her memory before we part. ..." 
 
Dumbledore took from an inside poc ket another crystal phial and Harry 
fell silent at once, remembering that  Dumbledore had said it was the most 
important one he had collected. Harry  noticed that the contents proved 
difficult to empty into the Pensieve, as though they had congealed slightly; 
did memories go bad? 
 
"This will not take long," said Dumble dore, when he had finally emptied 
the phial. "We shall be back before you know it. Once more into the Pensieve, then . . ." 
 
And Harry fell again through the silver surface, landing this time right in 
front of a man he recognized at once. 
 
It was a much younger Horace Slughorn.  Harry was so used to him bald 
that he found the sight of Slughorn with thick, shiny, straw-colored hair quite disconcerting; it looked as thou gh he had had his head thatched, though 
there was already a shiny Galleon-si zed bald patch on his crown. His 
mustache, less massive than it was th ese days, was gingery-blond. He was 
not quite as rotund as the Slughorn Harry knew, though the golden buttons 
on his richly embroidered waistcoat were taking a fair amount of strain. His 
little feet resting upon a velvet pouff e, he was sitting well back in a 
comfortable winged armchair, one hand grasping a small glass of wine, the 
other searching through a box of crystalized pineapple. 
 
Harry looked around as Dumbledore a ppeared beside him and saw that 
they were standing in Slughorn's office. Haifa dozen boys were sitting around Slughorn, all on harder or lower seats than his, and all in their mid-
teens. Harry recognized Voldemort at once. His was the most handsome face 
and he looked the most re laxed of all the boys. His right hand lay negligently 
upon the arm of his chair; with a jo lt, Harry saw that he was wearing 
Marvolo's gold-and-black ring; he  had already killed his father. 
 
"Sir, is it true that Professor Merry thought is retiring?" he asked. 
 
"Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn't tell you," said Slughorn, wagging a 
reproving, sugar-covered finger at Riddl e, though ruining the effect slightly 
by winking. "I must say, I'd like to  know where you get your information, 
boy, more knowledgeable than half the staff, you are.” 
 
Riddle smiled; the other boys laughed and cast him admiring looks. 
 "What with your uncanny ability to know things you shouldn’t, and your 
careful flattery of the people who ma tter — thank you fm the pineapple, by 
the way, you're quite right, it is my favorite — " 
 
As several of the boys tittered, some thing very odd ha ppened. The whole 
room was suddenly filled with a thick white fog, so that Harry could see 
nothing but the face of Dumbledore, w ho was standing beside him. Then 
Slughorn's voice rang out through the mi st, unnaturally loudly, "You'll go 
wrong, boy, mark my words. " 
 
The fog cleared as suddenly as it ha d appeared and yet nobody made any 
allusion to it, nor did anybody look as though anything unusual had just 
happened. Bewildered, Harry looke d around as a small golden clock 
standing upon Slughorn's desk chimed eleven o'clock. 
 
"Good gracious, is it that time already?" said Slughorn. "You'd better get 
going, boys, or we'll all be in trouble. Lestrange, I want your essay by tomorrow or it's detention. Same goes for you, Avery." 
 
Slughorn pulled himself out of his ar mchair and carried his empty glass 
over to his desk as the boys filed out . Voldemort, however, stayed behind. 
Harry could tell he had dawdled deliberatel y, wanting to be last in the room 
with Slughorn. 
 
"Look sharp, Tom," said Slughorn, tu rning around and fi nding him still 
present. "You don't want to be caught out of bed out of hours, and you a 
prefect..."  
"Sir, I wanted to ask you something." 
 
"Ask away, then, m'boy, ask away...." 
 
"Sir, I wondered what you know about. . . about Horcruxes?" 
 
And it happened all over again: The de nse fog filled the room so that 
Harry could not see Slughorn or Voldemort at all; only Dumbledore, smiling 
serenely beside him. Then Slughorn's voice boomed out again, just as it had 
done before. 
 
"I don't know anything about Horcruxe s and I wouldn't tell you if I did! 
Now get out of here at once and don’ t let me catch you mentioning them 
again!" 
 
"Well, that's that," said Du mbledore placidly beside Harry. 
 
"Time to go." 
 
And Harry's feet left the floor to fall, seconds later, back onto the 
 
rug in front of Dumbledore's desk. 
 
"That's all there is?" said Harry blankly. 
 Dumbledore had said that this was the most important memory of all, but 
he could not see what was so significant about it. Admittedly the fog, and 
the fact that nobody seemed to have not iced it, was odd, but other than that 
nothing seemed to have happened ex cept that Voldemort had asked a 
question and failed to get an answer. 
 
"As you might have noticed," said Du mbledore, reseating himself behind 
his desk, "that memory has been tampered with." 
 
"Tampered with?" repeated Harry, sitting back down too. 
 
"Certainly," said Dumbledore. "Pro fessor Slughorn has meddled with his 
own recollections." 
 
"But why would he do that?" 
 
"Because, I think, he is ashamed of what he remembers," said 
Dumbledore. "He has tried to rework th e memory to show himself in a better 
light, obliterating those parts which he does not wish me to see. It is, as you will have noticed, very crudely done, and that is all to the good, for it shows 
that the true memory is still there beneath the alterations. 
 
"And so, for the first time, I am giving you homework, Harry. It will be 
your job to persuade Professor Slughorn to divulge the real memory, which 
will undoubtedly be our most crucial piece of information of all." 
 
Harry stared at him.  
"But surely, sir," he said, keeping his voice as respectful as possible, "you 
don't need me — you could use Legili mency ... or Veritaserum. ..." 
 
"Professor Slughorn is an extremely able wizard who will be expecting 
both," said Dumbledore. "He is much  more accomplished at Occlumency 
than poor Morfin Gaunt, and I would be as tonished if he has not carried an 
antidote to Veritaserum with him ever  since I coerced him into giving me 
this travesty of a recollection. 
 
"No, I think it would be foolish to attempt to wrest the truth from 
Professor Slughorn by force, and might do much more harm than good; I do 
not wish him to leave Hogwarts. Howe ver, he has his w eaknesses like the 
rest of us, and I believe that you are the one person who might be able to 
penetrate his defenses. It is most impor tant that we secure the true memory, 
Harry. . . . How important, we will only know when we have seen the real 
thing. So, good luck . . . and good night." 
 
A little taken aback by the abrupt dismi ssal, Harry got to his feet quickly. 
"Good night, sir." 
 
As he closed the study door behind him, he distinctly heard Phineas 
Nigellus say, "I can't see why the boy shou ld be able to do it better than you, 
Dumbledore." 
 
"I wouldn't expect you to, Phineas," replied Dumbledore, and Fawkes 
gave another low, musical cry. 
CHAPTER 18
 
The next day Harry confided in both  Ron and Hermione the task that 
Dumbledore had set him, though separa tely, for Hermione still refused to 
remain in Ron's presence longer th an it took to give him a contemptuous 
look. 
 
Ron thought that Harry was unlikely to  have any trouble with Slughorn at 
all. 
 
'He loves you,' he said over breakfast, wa ving an airy forkful of fried egg. 
'Won't refuse you anything, will he? No t his little Potions Prince. Just hang 
back after class this afternoon and ask him.' 
 
Hermione, however, took a gloomier view. 
 
'He must be determined to hide what really happened if Dumbledore 
couldn't get it out of him,' she said in a low voice, as they stood in the 
deserted, snowy courtyard at break. 'H orcruxes ... Horcruxes ... I've never 
even heard of them ...' 
 
'You haven't?' 
 
Harry was disappointed; he had hoped that Hermione might have been 
able to give him a clue as  to what Horcruxes were. 
 'They must be really advanced Da rk magic, or why would Voldemort 
have wanted to know about them? I thi nk it's going to be difficult to get the 
information, Harry, you'll have to be very careful about how you approach 
Slughorn, think out a strategy ..." 
 
'Ron reckons 1 should just hang back after Potions this afternoon ...' 
 
'Oh, well, if Won-Won thinks that, you' d better do it,' she said, flaring up 
at once. 'After all, wh en has Won-Won's judgement ever been faulty?' 
 
'Hermione, can't you —' 
 
'No!' she said angrily, and stormed away, leaving Harry alone and ankle-
deep in snow. 
 
Potions lessons were uncomfortable  enough these days, seeing as Harry, 
Ron and Hermione had to share a desk. Today, Herm ione moved her 
cauldron around the table so that she wa s close to Ernie, and ignored both 
Harry and Ron. 
 
'What've you done?' R on muttered to Harry, looking at Hermione's 
haughty profile. 
 
But before Harry could answer, Slug horn was calling for silence from the 
front of the room. 
 'Settle down, settle down, please! Qu ickly, now, lots of work to get 
through this afternoon! Golpalott's Th ird Law ... who can tell me -? But Miss 
Granger can, of course!' 
 
Hermione recited at top speed: 'Gol palott's-Third-Law- states-that-the-
antidote-for-a-blended-poison-will-be-e qual-to- more-than-the-sum-of-the-
antidotes-for-each-of-the-separale- components.' 
 
'Precisely!' beamed Slughorn. Ten points for Gryffindor! Now, if we 
accept Golpalott's Third Law as true ..." 
 
Harry was going to have to  take Slughorn's word for it that Golpalott's 
Third Law was true, because he had not under-stood any of it. Nobody apart 
from Hermione seemed to be following what Slughorn said next, either. 
 
'... which means, of course, that assuming we have achieved correct 
identification of the potion's ingred ients by Scarpin's Revelaspell, our 
primary aim is not the relatively simple  one of selecting antidotes to those 
ingredients in a 
 
of themselves, but to find that adde d component which will, by an almost 
alchemical process, transform these disparate elements -' 
 
Ron was sitting beside Harry  with his mouth half- open, doodling absently 
on his new copy of Advanced Potion-Ma king. Ron kept forgetting that he 
could no longer rely on Hermione to help him out of  trouble when he failed 
to grasp what was going on.  
'... and so,' finished Slughorn, 'I want each of you to come  and take one of 
these phials from my desk. You are to  create an antidot e for the poison 
within it before the end of the less on. Good luck, and don't forget your 
protective gloves!' 
 
Hermione had left her stool and was halfway towards Siughorn's desk 
before the rest of the cla ss had realised it was time to move, and by the time 
Harry, Ron and Ernie returned to th e table, she had already tipped the 
contents of her phial into her cauldron and was kindling a fire underneath it. 
 
'it's a shame that the Prince won't be  able to help you much with this, 
Harry,' she said brightly as she straightened up. 'You have to understand the 
principles involved this time. No short cuts or cheats!' 
 
Annoyed, Harry uncorked the poison he had take n from Siughorn's desk, 
which was a garish shade of pink, tip ped it into his cauldron and lit a fire 
underneath it. He did not have the fainte st idea what he was supposed to do 
next. He glanced at Ron, who wa s now standing there looking rather 
gormless, having copied ev erything Harry had done. 
 
'You sure the Prince hasn't got a ny tips?' Ron muttered to Harry. 
 
Harry pulled out his trusty copy of Advanced Potion-Making and turned 
to the chapter on Antidotes. There was Golpalott's Third Law, stated word 
for word as Hermione had recited it, but not a single illuminating note in the Prince's hand to explain what it meant. Apparently the Prince, like 
Hermione, had had no difficulty understanding it. 
 
'Nothing,' said Harry gloomily. 
 
Hermione was now waving her wand enthusiastically over her cauldron. 
Unfortunately, they could not copy th e spell she was doing because she was 
now so good at non-verbal incan-tations that she did not need to say the 
words aloud. Ernie Macmillan, however, was muttering, 'Specialis revelio!' 
over his cauldron, which sounded impre ssive, so Harry and Ron hastened to 
imitate him. 
 
It took Harry only five minutes to r ealise that his reputa-tion as the best 
potion-maker in the class was crashi ng around his ears. Slughorn had peered 
hopefully into his cauldron on his firs t circuit of the dungeon, preparing to 
exclaim in delight as he usually did,  and instead had with-drawn his head 
hastily, coughing, as the smell of bad eggs overwhelmed him. Hermione's 
expression could not have been a ny smugger; she had loathed being out-
performed in every Potions class. Sh e was now decanting the mysteriously 
separated ingredients of he r poison into ten different crystal phials. More to 
avoid watching this irritating sight than  any-thing else, Harry bent over the 
Half-Blood Prince's book and turned a few pages with unnecessary force. 
 
And there it was, scrawled right  across a long list of antidotes. 
 
Just shove a bezoar down their throats. 
 Harry stared at these words for a mome nt. Hadn't he once, long ago, heard 
of bezoars? Hadn't Snape mentioned them in their first ever Potions lesson? 
'A stone taken from the stomach of a goat, which will protect from most 
poisons.' 
 
It was not an answer to the Golpal ott problem, and had Snape still been 
their teacher, Harry would not have da red do it, but this was a moment for 
desperate measures. He ha stened towards the stor e cupboard and rummaged 
within it, pushing aside unicorn horns and tangles of dried herbs until he found, at the very back, a small card box on which had been scribbled the 
word 'Bezoars'. 
 
He opened the box just as Slughorn ca lled, Two minutes left, everyone!' 
Inside were half a dozen shrivelled brown objects, looking more like dried-up kidneys than real stones. Harry seized one, put the box back in the 
cupboard and hurried back to his cauldron. 
 
'Time's ... UP!' called Slu ghorn genially. 'Well, le t's see how you've done! 
Blaise ... what have you got for me?' 
 
Slowly, Slughorn moved around the room, examining the various 
antidotes. Nobody had finished the task , although Hermione  was trying to 
cram a few more ingredients into he r bottle before Slugho rn reached her. 
Ron had given up com-pletely, and was merely trying to avoid breathing in 
the putrid fumes issuing from his cauldron. Harry stood there waiting, the 
bezoar clutched in a slightly sweaty hand. 
 Slughorn reached their table last. He sniffed Ernie's potion and passed on 
to Ron's with a grimace. He did not linger over Ron's cauldron, but backed 
away swiftly, retching slightly. 
 
'And you, Harry,' he said. 'Wha t have you got to show me?' 
 
Harry held out his hand, the bezoar sitting on his palm. 
 
Slughorn looked down at it for a full ten seconds. Harry wondered, for a 
moment, whether he was going to shout at  him. Then he threw back his head 
and roared with laughter. 
 
'You've got a nerve, boy!' he boomed, taking the bezoar and holding it up 
so that the class could see it. 'Oh, you're like your mother ... well, 1 can't 
fault you ... a bezoar would certainly act as an antidote to all these potions!' 
 
Hermione, who was sweaty -faced and had soot on her nose, looked livid. 
Her half-finished antidote, comprising fifty-two ingredients including a 
chunk of her own hair, 
 
bubbled sluggishly behind Slughorn, who had eyes for nobody but Harry. 
 
'And you thought of a bezoar all by you rself, did you, Harry?' she asked 
through gritted teeth. 
 
That's the individual spirit a real potion-maker needs!' said Slughorn 
happily, before Harry could reply. 'Jus t like his mother, she had the same intuitive grasp of potion-making, it's undoubt edly from Lily he gets it ... yes, 
Harry, yes, if you've got a bezoar to ha nd, of course that would do the trick 
... although as they don't work on everythi ng, and are pretty rare, it's still 
worth knowing how to mix antidotes ...' 
 
The only person in the room looking a ngrier than Hermione was Malfoy, 
who, Harry was pleased to see, had sp illed some-thing that looked like cat 
sick over himself. Before either of th em could express thei r fury that Harry 
had come top of the class by not doing any work, however, the bell rang. 
 
Time to pack up!' said Slughorn. 'A nd an extra ten points to Gryffindor 
for sheer cheek!' 
 
Still chuckling, he waddled back to his desk at the front of the dungeon. 
 
Harry dawdled behind, taking an inor dinate amount of time to do up his 
bag. Neither Ron nor Hermione wished him luck as they left; both looked 
rather annoyed. At last Harry and Slu ghorn were the only two left in the 
room. 
 
'Come on, now, Harry, you'll be late for your next lesson,' said Slughorn 
affably, snapping the gold clasps shut on his dragonskin briefcase. 
 
'Sir,' said Harry, reminding himself irresi stibly of Voldemort, '1 wanted to 
ask you something.' 
 
'Ask away, then, my d ear boy, ask away ..."  
'Sir, 1 wondered what you know about ... about Horcruxes?' 
 
Slughorn froze. His round face seem ed to sink in upon itself. He licked 
his lips and said hoarsely, 'What did you say?' 'I asked whether you know 
anything about Horcruxes, sir. You see -' 
 
'Dumbledore put you up to this,' whispered Slughorn. 
 
His voice had changed completely. It  was not genial any more, but 
shocked, terrified. He fumbled in  his breast pocket and pulled out a 
handkerchief, mopping his sweating brow. 
 
'Dumbledore's shown you that - that memory,' said Slughorn. 'Well? 
Hasn't he?' 
 
'Yes,' said Harry, deciding on the spot that it was best not to lie. 
 
'Yes, of course,' said Slughorn quietly , still dabbing at his white face. 'Of 
course ... well, if you've seen that memory, Harry, you'll k now that I don't 
know anything - anything -he repeated the word forcefully '- about 
Horcruxes.' 
 
He seized his dragonskin briefcase, st uffed his handkerchief back into his 
pocket and marched to the dungeon door. 
 'Sir,' said Harry desperately, 'I just  thought there might be a bit more to 
the memory -' 
 
'Did you?' said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, weren't you? WRONG!' 
 
He bellowed the last word and, be fore Harry could say another word, 
slammed the dungeon door behind him. 
 
Neither Ron nor Hermione was at all sympathetic when Harry told them 
of this disastrous interview Hermione was still seething at the way Harry had 
triumphed without doing the work prope rly. Ron was resentful that Harry 
hadn't slipped him a bezoar, too. 
 
'It would've just looked stupid if we'd  both done it!' said Harry irritably. 
'Look, I had to try and soften him up so I could ask him about Voldemort, 
didn't I? Oh, will you gel a grip!' he added in exasperation, as Ron winced at 
the sound of the name. 
 
Infuriated by his failure and by Ron and Hermione's atti- 
 
tudes, Harry brooded for the next fe w days over what to do next about 
Slughorn. He decided that, for the tim e being, he would let Slughorn think 
that he had forgotten all about Horcruxes;  it was surely best to lull him into a 
false sense of security befo re returning to the attack. 
 
When Harry did noi question Slughorn ag ain, the Potions master reverted 
to his usual affectionate treatment of  him, and appeared to have put the matter from his mind. Harry awaited an invitation to one of his little evening 
parties, determined to accept this time, even if he had to reschedule 
Quidditch prac- tice. Unfortunately, however, no such invitation arrived. 
Harry checked with Hermione and Ginny : neither of them had received an 
invitation and nor, as far as they knew, had anybody else . Harry could not 
help wondering whether this meant that  Slughorn was not quite as forgetful 
as he appeared, simply determined to  give Harry no additional opportunities 
to question him. 
 
Meanwhile, the Hogwarts library had fa iled Hermione for the first lime in 
living memory. She was so shocked, she even forgot that she was annoyed at 
Harry for his trick with the bezoar, 
 
'I haven't found one singl e explanation of what Horcruxes do!" she told 
him. 'Not a single one! I've been right through the restricted section and even 
in the most horrible books, where th ey tell you how to brew the most 
gruesome potions -nothing! All I could find was this, in the introduciion to 
Magick Mostc Evilc — listen — "of th e Horcrux, wickedest of magical 
inventions, we shall not sp eak nor give direction" ... 1 mean, why mention it, 
then?' she said impatiently, slamming th e old book shut; it let out a ghostly 
wail. 'Oh, shut up,' she snapped, st uffing it back into her bag. 'I asked 
whether you know anything about Horcruxes, sir. You see - 
 
'Dumbledore put you up to this,' whispered Slughorn, 
 His voice had changed completely. It  was not genial any more, but 
shocked, terrified. He fumbled in  his breast pocket and pulled out a 
handkerchief, mopping his sweating brow. 
 
'Dumbledore's shown you that — that memory,' said Slughorn. 'Well? 
Hasn't he?' 
 
'Yes,' said Harry, deciding on the spot that it was best not to lie. 
 
'Yes, of course,' said Slughorn quietly , still dabbing at his white face. 'Of 
course ... well, if you've seen that memory, Harry, you'll k now that I don't 
know anything - anything -he repeated the word forcefully '- about 
Horcruxes.' 
 
He seized his dragonskin briefcase, st uffed his handkerchief back into his 
pocket and marched to the dungeon door. 
 
'Sir,' said Harry desperately, '1  just thought there might be a 
 
'Did you?' said Slughorn. Then you were wrong, weren't you? WRONG!' 
 
He bellowed the last word and, be fore Harry could say another word, 
slammed the dungeon door behind him. 
 
Neither Ron nor Hermione was at all sympathetic when Harry told them 
of this disastrous interview. Hermione  was still seething at the way Harry had triumphed without doing the work  properly. Ron was resentful that 
Harry hadn't slipped him a bezoar, too. 
 
'It would've just looked stupid if we'd  both done it!' said Harry irritably. 
'Look, 1 had to try and soften him up so 1 could ask him about Voldemort, 
didn't I? Oh, will you get a grip!' he added in exasperation, as Ron winced at 
the sound of 
 
Infuriated by his failure and by Ron and Hermione's atti- 
 
tudes, Harry brooded for the next fe w days over what to do next about 
Slughorn. He decided that, for the tim e being, he would let Slughorn think 
that he had forgotten all about Horcruxes;  it was surely best to lull him into a 
false sense of security befo re returning to the attack. 
 
When Harry did not question Slughorn ag ain, the Potions master reverted 
to his usual affectionate treatment of  him, and appeared to have put the 
matter from his mind. Harry awaited an invitation to one of his little evening 
parties, determined to accept this time, even if he had to reschedule Quidditch prac-tice. Unfortunately, how ever, no such invitation arrived. 
Harry checked with Hermione and Ginny : neither of them had received an 
invitation and nor, as far as they knew, had anybody else . Harry could not 
help wondering whether this meant that  Slughorn was not quite as forgetful 
as he appeared, simply determined to  give Harry no additional opportunities 
to question him. 
 Meanwhile, the Hogwarts library had fa iled Hermione for the first time in 
living memory. She was so shocked, she even forgot that she was annoyed at 
Harry for his trick with the bezoar. 
 
'I haven't found one single explanati on of what Horcruxes do!' she told 
him. 'Not a single one! I've been right through the restricted section and even 
in the most horrible books, where th ey tell you how to brew the most 
gruesome potions -nothing! All I could find was this, in the introduction to 
Magick Moste Evile - listen - "of th e Horcrux, wickedest of magical 
inventions, we shall not sp eak nor give direction" ... I mean, why mention it, 
then?' she said impatiently, slamming th e old book shut; it let out a ghostly 
wail. 'Oh, shut up,' she snapped,  stuffing it back into her bag. 
 
The snow melted around the school as Febr uary arrived, to be replaced by 
cold, dreary wetness. Purplish-grey  clouds hung low over the castle and a 
constant fall of chilly rain made the lawns slippery and muddy. The upshot 
of this was that the sixth-years'  first Apparition lesson, which was 
sched-uled for a Saturday morning so  that no normal lessons would be 
missed, took place in the Great Hall instead of in the grounds. 
 
When Harry and Hermione arrived in  the Hall (Ron had come down with 
Lavender) they found that the tables had disappeared. Rain lashed against 
the high windows and the enchanted ce iling swirled darkly above them as 
they assembled in front of Professo rs McGonagall, Snape, Flitwick and 
Sprout - the Heads of House - and a small wizard whom Harry  took to be the 
Apparition Instructor from the Ministry. He was oddly colourless, with 
transparent eyelashes, wispy hair and an  insubstantial air, as though a single gust of wind might blow him away. Harry wondered whether constant 
dis-appearances and reappearances had somehow diminished his substance, 
or whether this frail build was ideal for anyone wishing to vanish. 
 
'Good morning,' said the Ministry wizard, when all the stu-dents had 
arrived and the Heads of House had called for quiet. 'My name is Wilkie 
Twycross and I shall be your Ministry -Apparition Instructor for the next 
twelve weeks. 1 hope to be able to prepare you for your Apparition test in 
this time -' 
 
'Malfoy, be quiet and pay attentio n!' barked Professor McGonagall. 
 
Everybody looked round. Malfoy had flushed a dull pink; he looked 
furious as he stepped away from Crabbe , with whom he appeared to have 
been having a whispered argu-ment. Ha rry glanced quickly at Snape, who 
also looked annoyed, though Harry st rongly suspected that this was less 
because of Malfoy's rudeness than the fact that McGonagall had 
reprimanded one of his house. 
 
'- by which time, many of you may be ready to take your test,' Twycross 
continued, as though there had been no interruption. 
 
'As you may know, it is usually impossi ble to Apparate or Disapparate 
within Hogwarts. The Headmaster has lif ted this enchantment, purely within 
the Great Hall, for one hour, so as  to enable you to practise. May I 
emphasise that you will not be able to Apparate outside the walls of this 
Hall, and that you would be unwise to try.  
'I would like each of you to place yourse lves now so that you have a clear 
five feet of space in front of you.' 
 
There was a great scrambiing and jos tling as people separ-ated, banged 
into each other, and ordered others out  of their space. The Heads of House 
moved among the students,  marshalling them into  position and breaking up 
arguments. 
 
'Harry, where are you goi ng? 1 demanded Hermione. 
 
But Harry did not answer; he was movi ng quickly through the crowd, past 
the place where Professor Flitwick wa s making squeaky attempts to position 
a few Ravenclaws, all of whom wanted to be near the front, past Professor 
Sprout, who was chivvying the Huffle puffs into line, until, by dodging 
around Ernie Macmillan, he managed to position himself right at the back of 
the crowd, directly behind Malfoy, wh o was taking advantag e of the general 
upheaval to continue his argument with Crabbe, standing five feet away and 
looking mutinous. 
 
'I don't know how much longer, all right ?' Malfoy shot at him, oblivious 
to Harry standing right behind him. 'It's taking longer than I thought it 
would.' 
 
Crabbe opened his mouth, but Malfoy appeared to second-guess what he 
was going to say. 
 'Look, it's none of your business what  I'm doing, Crabbe, you and Goyle 
just do as you're told and keep a lookout!' 
 
'! tell my friends what I'm up to, if I want them to keep a lookout for me," 
Harry said, just loud enough for Malfoy to hear him. 
 
Malfoy spun round on the spot, his hand flying to his wand, but at thai 
precise moment the four Heads of Hous e shouted, 'Quiet!' and silence fell 
again. Malfoy turned slowly to face the front. 
 
Thank you,' said Twycross. :Now then ...' 
 
He waved his wand. Old-fashioned wooden hoops instantly appeared on 
the floor in from of every student. 
 
The important things to remember when  Apparating are the three Ds!' said 
Twycross. 'Destination, Dete rmination, Deliberation! 
 
'Step one: fix your mind firmly upon the desired destin-ation,' said 
Twycross. 'In this case, the interior  of your hoop. Kindly concentrate upon 
that destination now.' 
 
Everybody looked around furtively, to check that everyone else was 
staring into their hoop, then hastily did as they were told. Harry gazed at the 
circular patch of dusty floor enclosed by his hoop and tried hard to think of 
nothing else. This proved impossible, as  he couldn't stop puzzling over what 
Malfoy was doing that needed lookouts.  
"Step two,' said Twycross, 'focus your determination to occupy the 
visualised space! Let your yearning to  enter it flood from your mind to every 
particle of your body!' 
 
Harry glanced around surreptitiously. A little way to his left, Ernie 
Macmillan was contemplating his hoop so hard that his face had turned pink; 
it looked as though he was straining to  lay a Quaffle-sized egg. Harry bit 
back a laugh and hastily return ed his gaze to his own hoop. 
 
'Step three,' called Twyc ross, 'and only when 1 give the com-mand ... lum 
on the spot, feeiing your way into nothingness, moving with deliberation 1. 
On my command, now ... one- 1 
 
Harry glanced around again; lots of people were looking positively 
alarmed at being asked to Apparate so quickly. 
 
Harry tried to fix his thoughts on his h oop again; he had already forgotten 
what the three Ds stood for. 
 
: - THREE!' 
 
Harry spun on the spot, lost his bala nce and nearly fell over. He was not 
the only one. The whole Ha ll was suddenly full of staggering people; Neville 
was flat on his back; Ernie Macmillan, on the other hand, had done a kind of 
pirouet-ting leap into his hoop and lo oked momentarily thrilled, until he 
caught sight of Dean Thomas roaring with laughter at him.  
'Never mind, never mind,' said Twycro ss dryly, who did not seem to have 
expected anything better. 'Adjust your hoops, please, and back to your 
original positions ...' 
 
The second atlem.pt was no better than th e first. The third was just as bad. 
Not until the fourth did anything exciting happen. There was a horrible 
screech of pain and ever ybody looked around, terrifie d, to see Susan Bones 
of Hufflepuff wobbling in her hoop with her left leg still standing five feet 
away where she had started. 
 
The Heads of House converged on her;  there was a great bang and a puff 
of purple smoke, which cleared to reve al Susan sobbing, reunited with her 
leg but looking horrified. 
 
'Sph'nching, or the separation of  random body parts,' said Wilkie 
Twycross dispassionately, 'occurs when the mind is insufficiently 
determined. You must concentrate c ontinually upon your destination, and 
move, without hasie, but with deliberation ... thus.' 
 
Twycross stepped forwards, turned grace fully on the spot with his arms 
outstretched and vanished in a swirl of robes, reappearing at the back of the 
Hall. 'Remember the three Ds ,' he said, 'and try agai n ... one -two - three -' 
 
But an hour later, Susan's Splinching was still ihe most interesting thing 
that had happened. Twycross did not se em discouraged. Fastening his cloak at his neck, he merely said, 'Until next Saturday, everybody, and do not 
forget: Destin-ation. Dete rmination. Deliberation.' 
 
With that, he waved his wand, Vanishing the hoops, and walked out of the 
Hall accompanied by Professor McGona gall. Talk broke out at once as 
people began moving towards the Entrance Hall. 
 
'How did you do?' asked Ron, hurry ing towards Harry. '1 think 1 felt 
something the last time I tried - a kind of tingling in my feet.' 
 
'1 expect your trainers are too sm all, Won-Won,' said a voice behind 
them, and Hermione stalked past, smirking. 
 
'1 didn't feel anything,' said Harry, ignoring this inter-ruption. "But 1 don't 
care about that now-' 
 
'What d'you mean, you don't care ... don't yo u want to leam to Apparate?' 
said Ron incredulously. 
 
'I'm not fussed, really. I prefer flying,' said Harry, glancing over his 
shoulder to see where Malfoy was, and speeding up as they came into the 
Entrance Hall. 'Look, hurry up, will you, there's something I want to do ...' 
 
Perplexed, Ron followed Harry back to Gryffindor Tower at a run. They 
were temporarily detained by Peeves, who had jammed a door on the fourth 
floor shut and was refusing to let anyone  pass until they set fire to their own pants, but Harry and Ron simply turned  back and took one of their trusted 
short cuts. Within five minutes, they were climbing through the portrait hole. 
 
'Are you going to tell me what we'r e doing, then?' as ked Ron, panting 
slightly. 
 
'Up here,' said Harry, and he cro ssed the common room and led the way 
through the door to the boys' staircase. 
 
Their dormitory was, as Ham' had hoped, empty. He flung open his trunk 
and began to rummage in it, while Ron watched impatiently. 
 
'Harry ...' 
 
'Malfoy's using Crabbe and Goyle as  lookouts. He was argu-ing with 
Crabbe just now. 1 want to know ... aha.' 
 
He had found it, a folded square of a pparently blank parc hment, which he 
now smoothed out and tapped with [he tip of his wand. 
 
'I solemn!)' swear that I am up to no good ... or Malfoy is, 
 
At once, the Marauder's Map appeared  on the parchment's surface. Here 
was a detailed plan of every one of th e castle's floors and, moving around it, 
the tiny, labelled black dots that signifi ed each of the cas tle's occupants. 
 
'Help me find Malfoy,' said Harry urgently.  
He laid the map upon his bed and he and Ron leaned over it, searching. 
 
'There!' said Ron, afte r a minute or so. 'He's in the Slytherin common 
room, look ... with Parkinson and Zabini and Crabbe and Goyle ..." 
 
Harry looked down at the map, disappointed, but rallied almost at once. 
 
'Well, I'm keeping an eye on him from now on,' he said firmly. 'And the 
moment 1 see him lurking somewher e with Crabbe and Goyle keeping 
watch outside, it'll be on with the old In visibility Cloak and off to find out 
what he's-' 
 
He broke off as Neville entered the dor mitory, bringing with him a strong 
smell of singed material, and began ru m-maging in his trunk for a fresh pair 
of pants. 
 
Despite his determination 10 catch Ma lfoy out, Harry had no luck at all 
over the next couple of weeks. Although he consulted the map as often as he 
could, sometimes making unnecessary visits to the bathroom between 
lessons to search it, he did not on ce see Malfoy anywhere suspicious. 
Admit-tedly, he spotted Crabbe and Goyle moving around the castle on their 
own more often than usual, sometime s remaining stationary in deserted 
corridors, but at these times Malfoy wa s not only nowhere near them, but 
impossible to locate on the map at all.  This was most mysterious. Harry 
toyed with the possibility that Malf oy was actually leaving the school 
grounds, but could not see how he coul d be doing it, given the very high leve! of security now operating within the castle. He could only suppose ihat 
he was missing Malfoy amongst the hundreds of tiny black dots upon the 
map. As for the fact that Malfoy, Cr abbe and Goyle appeared to be going 
their dif-ferent ways when they were usually inseparable, these things happened as people got older - Ron a nd Hermione, Harry reflected sadly, 
were living proof. 
 
February moved towards Ma rch with no change in the weather except that 
it became windy as well as wet. To gene ral indignation, a sign went up on all 
common-room noticeboards that the ne xt trip into Hogsmeade had been 
cancelled. Ron was furious. 
 
'It was on my birthday!' he said, 'i was looking forward to that!' 
 
'Not a big surprise, though, is it?' sa id Harry. 'Not after what happened to 
Katie.' 
 
She had still not returned from Si Mungo's. What was more, further 
disappearances had been reported in the Daily Prophet, including several 
relatives of students at Hogwarts. 
 
'But now all I've got to look forward to is stupid Appar-ition!' said Ron 
grumpily. 'Big birthday treat ...' 
 
Three lessons on, Apparition was proving as difficult as 
 ever, though a few more people had managed to Splinch themselves. 
Frustration was running high and there was a certain amount of ill-feeling 
towards Wilkie Twycross and his three Ds, which had inspired a number of 
nicknames for him, the politest of which were Dog-breath and Dung-head. 
 
'Happy birthday, Ron,' said Harry, when  they were woken on the first of 
March by Seamus and Dean leaving nois ily for breakfast. 'Have a present.' 
 
He threw the package across on to Ron's bed, where it joined a small pile 
of them that must, Harry assumed, have been delivered by house-elves in the night. 
 
'Cheers,' said Ron drowsily, and as he ripped off the pa per Harry got out 
of bed, opened his own cr unk and began rum-maging in  it for the Marauder's 
Map, which he hid after every use. He  turfed out half the contents of his 
trunk before he found it hiding beneath the rolled-up socks in which he was 
still keeping his bottle of lucky potion, Felix Felicis. 
 
'Right,' he murmured, taking it back to bed with him, tap-ping it quietly 
and murmuring, 'I solemnly swear that  I am up to no good,' so that Neville, 
who was passing the foot of his bed at the time, would not hear. 
 
'Nice one, Harry!' said Ron enthusia stically, waving the new pair of 
Quidditch Keeper's gloves Harry had given him. 
 
'No problem,' said Harry absent-minde dly, as he searched the Slytherin 
dormitory closely for Malfoy. 'Hey . .. I don't think he's in his bed ...'  
Ron did not answer; he was too busy unwrapping presents, every now and 
then letting out an exclamation of pleasure. 
 
'Seriously good haul this year!' he announced, holding up a heavy gold 
watch with odd symbols around the edge  and tiny moving stars instead of 
hands. 'See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I think I'll come of age 
next year too ... 
 
'Cool,' muttered Harry, sparing the wa tch a glance before peering more 
closely at the map. Where was Malfoy?  He did not seem to be at the 
Slytherin table in the Great Hall, eating breakfast ... he was nowhere near 
Snape, who was sitting in his study ... he  wasn't in any of the bathrooms or 
in the hospital wing ... 
 
'Want one? 1 said Ron thickly, holding  out a box of Chocolate Cauldrons. 
 
'No thanks,' said Harry, looking up. 'Malfoy's gone again!' 
 
'Can't have done,' said Ron, stuffing  a second Cauldron into his mouth as 
he slid out of bed to get dressed. 'Come on. if you don't hurry up you'll have 
to Apparate on an empty-stomach .. . might make it easier, 1 suppose ..." 
 
Ron looked thoughtfully ai the b ox of Chocolate Cauldrons, then 
shrugged and helped himself to a third. 
 Harry tapped the map with his wand , muttered, 'Mischief managed,' 
though it hadn't been, and got dressed, thinking hard. There had to be an 
explanation for Malfoy's periodic disa ppearances, but he simply could not 
think what it could be. The best way of finding out would be to tail him, bur 
even with the Invisibility Cloak this wa s an impractical idea; he had lessons, 
Quidditch practice, homew ork and Apparition; he could not follow Malfoy 
around school all day wilhout his absence being remarked upon, 
 
'Ready?' he said to Ron. 
 
He was halfway to the dormitory door when he realised that Ron had not 
moved, but was leaning on his bedpost, staring out of the rain-washed window with a strangely un-focused look on his face. 
 
'Ron? Breakfast.' 
 
'I'm not hungry,' 
 
Harry stared ai him. 
 
'I thought you just said -?' 
 
-Well, all right, I'll come down with y ou,' sighed Ron, 'but I don't want to 
eat.' 
 
Harry scrutinised him suspiciously. 
 'You've just eaten half a box of Chocolate Cauldrons,  haven't you?' 
 
'It's not that,' Ron sighed again.  'You ... you wouldn't understand.' 
 
'Fair enough,' said Harry, albeit puzzl ed, as he turned to open the door. 
 
'Harry!' said Ron suddenly. 
 
'What?' 
 
'Harry, I can't stand it!' 
 
'You can't stand what?' asked Harry, now starling to feel definitely 
alarmed. Ron was rather pa le and looked as though he  was about to be sick. 
 
'I can't stop thinking about her!' said Ron hoarsely. 
 
Harry gaped at him. He had not expect ed this and was not sure he wanted 
to hear it. Friends they might be, but  if Ron started calling Lavender 'Lav-
Lav', he would have to  pui his foot down. 
 
'Why does that stop you having breakfast?'  Harry asked, trying to inject a 
note of common sense into the proceedings. 
 
'I don't think she knows I exist,' sa id Ron with a desperate gesture. 
 'She definitely knows you exist,' sa id Harry, bewildered. 'She keeps 
snogging you, doesn't she?' 
 
Ron blinked. 
 
'Who are you talking about?' 
 
Who are you talking about?' said Harry, with an increasing sense that all 
reason had dropped out of the conversation. 
 
'Romilda Vane,' said Ron softly, and his whole face seemed to illuminate 
as he said it, as though hit by a ray of purest sun light. They stared at each 
other for almost a whole minute, before  Harry said, 'This is a joke, right? 
You're joking.' 
 
T think ... Harry, 1 ihink I love her, ' said Ron in a strangled voice. 
 
'OK,' said Harry, walking up to Ron 10 get a better look at the glazed eyes 
and the pallid complexion, 'OK ... say that again with a straight face.' 
 
'I love her,' repeated Ron breathle ssly. 'Have you seen her hair, it's all 
black and shiny and silky ... and her eyes? Her big dark eyes? And her -' 
 
'This is really funny and everything,'  said Harry impatiently, 'but joke's 
over, all right? Drop it.' 
 He turned to leave; he had got two steps towards the door when a crashing 
blow hit him on the right ear. Staggeri ng, he looked round.  Ron's fist was 
drawn right back, his face was contorted with rage; he was about to strike 
again. 
 
Harry reacted instinctively; his wa nd was out of his pocket and the 
incantation sprang to mind without  conscious thought: Le\icorpus! 
 
Ron yelled as his heel was wrench ed upwards once more; he dangled 
helplessly, upside-down, his robes hanging off him. 
 
'What was that for? ' Harry bellowed. 
 
'You insulted her, Harry! You said it was a joke!' shouted Ron, who was 
slowly turning purple in the face as  all the blood rushed to his head. 
 
'This is insane!' said Harry. 'What's got into -?' 
 
And then he saw the box lying open on R on's bed and the truth hit him 
with the force of a stampeding troll. 
 
'Where did you get those Chocolate Cauldrons?' 
 
'They were a birthday present!' shouted Ron, revolving slowly in midair 
as he struggled to get free. '1 offered you one, didn't 1?' 
 
'You just picked them up off the floor, didn't you?'  
'They'd fallen off my be d, all right? Let me go!' 
 
'They didn't fall off your bed, you pr at, don't you under-stand? They were 
mine, 1 chucked them out of my tr unk when 1 was looking for the map. 
They're the Chocolate Cauldrons Rom ilda gave me before Christmas and 
they're all spiked with love potion!' 
 
But only one word of this seemed to have registered with Ron. 
 
'Romilda?' he repeated. 'Did you say Romilda? Harry - do you know her? 
Can you introduce me?' 
 
Harry stared at the dangling Ron, whose face now looked tremendously 
hopeful, and fought a strong  desire to laugh. A part of him - the part closest 
to his throbbing right ear - was quite  keen on the idea of letting Ron down 
and watching him run amok until the effect s of the potion wore off ... but on 
the other hand, they were supposed to be friends, Ron had not been himself 
when he had attacked, and Harry- thought that he would deserve another 
punching if he permitted Ron to d eclare undying love for Romilda Vane. 
 
'Yeah, I'll introduce you,' said Harry, thinking fast. 'I'm going to let you 
down now, OK?' 
 
He sent Ron crashing back to the fl oor (his ear did hurt quite a lot), but 
Ron simply bounded to his feet again, grinning. 
 'She'll be in Slughorn's office, 1 said  Harry confidently, leading the way to 
the door. 
 
'Why will she be in there?' asked R on anxiously, hurrying to keep up. 
 
'Oh, she has extra Potions lessons with  him,' said Harry, inventing wildly. 
 
'Maybe 1 could ask if 1 can have them with her?' said Ron eagerly. 
 
'Great idea,' said Harry. Lavender wa s waiting beside the portrait hole, a 
complication Harry had not foreseen. 
 
'You're lace, Won-Won!' she pouted . 'I've got you a birth-day-' 
 
'Leave me alone,' said Ron impatiently, 'Harry's going to introduce me to 
Romilda Vane.' 
 
And without another word to her, he  pushed his way oui of the portrait 
hole. Harry tried to make an apologetic  face to Lavender,  but it might have 
turned out simply amused, because sh e looked more offended than ever as 
the Fat Lady swung shut behind them. 
 
 
Harry had been slightly worried that Slughorn might be at breakfast, but 
he answered his office door at the first knock, wearing a green velvet 
dressing-gown and matchi ng nightcap and looking rather bleary-eyed. 
 'Harry,' he mumbled. 'This is very ear ly for a call ... I generally sleep late 
on a Saturday ..." 
 
'Professor, I'm really sorry to disturb you,' said Harry as quietly as 
possible, while Ron stood on tiptoe, atte mpting to see past Slughorn into his 
room, 'but my friend Ron's swallowed a love potion by mistake. You 
couldn't make him an antidote, could you? I'd take him to Madam Pomfrey, 
but we're not supposed to have a nything from Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes 
and, you know ... awkward questions ...' 
 
Td have thought you could have whipped him up a remedy, Harry, an 
expert potioneer like you?' asked Slughorn. 'Er,' said Harry, somewhat distracted by the fact that Ron was now elbowing him in the ribs in an 
attempt to force his way into the room , 'well, I've neve r mixed an antidote 
for a love potion, sir, and by the time I get it right Ron might've done 
something serious -' 
 
Helpfully, Ron chose this moment to mo an, 'I can't see he r. Harry - is he 
hiding her?' 
 
'Was this potion within date?' asked Slughorn, now eyeing Ron with 
professional interest. 'They can st rengthen, you know, the longer they're 
kept.' 
 
That would explain a lot,' panted Harry, now positively wrestling with 
Ron to keep him from knocking Slughorn over. 'It's his birthday, Professor,' 
he added imploringly.  
'Oh, all right, come in, then, come in,'  said Slughorn, relenting. 'I've got 
the necessary here in my bag, it's not a difficult antidote ...' 
 
Ron burst through the door into Slughorn's overheated, crowded study, 
tripped over a tasselled footstool, re gained his balance by seizing Harry 
around the neck and muttered, 'S he didn't see that, did she?' 
 
'She's not here yet,' said Harry, watching Slughorn opening his potion kit 
and adding a few pinches of this and that to a small crystal bottle. 
 
That's good,' said Ron fervently. 'How do I look?' 
 
'Very handsome,' said Slughorn smoot hly, handing Ron a glass of clear 
liquid. 'Now drink that up, it's a t onic for the nerves, keep you calm when 
she arrives, you know,' 
 
'Brilliant,' said Ron eagerly, and he gulped the antidote down noisily. 
 
Harry and Slughorn watche d him. For a moment, Ron beamed at them. 
Then, very slowly, his grin sagged and van-ished, to be replaced by an 
expression of utmost horror. 
 
'Back to normal, then?' said Harry, grinning. Slughorn chuckled. Thanks a 
lot, Professor.' 
 'Don't mention it, m'boy, don't men tion it,' said Slughorn, as Ron 
collapsed into a nearby armchair, looking devastated. 'Pick-me-up, that's 
what he needs,' Slughorn continued, now-bustling over to a table loaded 
with drinks. 'I've got Butter-beer, I've got  wine, I've got one last bottle of this 
oak-matured mead ... hmm ... meant to give that to Dumbledore for 
 
Christmas ... ah well ...' he shrugged '... he can't miss what he's never had! 
Why don't we open it now and celebrate  Mr Weasley's birthday? Nothing 
like a fine spirit to chase away th e pangs of disappointed love ...' 
 
He chortled again and Harry joined in. This was the firsi time he had 
found himself almost alone with Slughor n since his disastrous first attempt 
to extract the true memory from him. Pe rhaps, if he could just keep Slughorn 
in a good mood ... perhaps if they got through enough of the oak-matured 
mead ... 
 
There you are, then,' said Slughorn, handing Harry and Ron a glass of 
mead each, before raising his own. 'W ell, a very happy birthday, Ralph -' 
 
'- Ron -' whispered Harry. 
 
But Ron, who did not appear to be listening to the toast, had already 
thrown the mead into his mouth and swallowed it. 
 
There was one second, hardly more than a heartbeat, in which Harry knew 
there was something terribly wrong a nd Slughorn, it seemed, did not. 
 '- and may you ha ve many more - 
 
'Ron!' 
 
Ron had dropped his glass; he half-rose  from his chair and then crumpled, 
his extremities jerking uncontrollably. Foam was dribbling from his mouth 
and his eyes were bulging from their sockets. 
 
'Professor!' Harry bell owed. 'Do something]' 
 
But Slughorn seemed paralysed by shock. Ron twitched and choked: his 
skin was turning blue. 
 
'What - but -' spluttered Slughorn. 
 
Harry leapt over a low table and spri nted towards Slughorn's open potion 
kit, pulling out jars and pouches, while  the terrible sound of Ron's gargling 
breath filled the room. Then 
 
he found it - the shrivelled kidney- like stone Slughorn had taken from him 
in Potions. 
 
He hurtled back to Ron's side, wren ched open his jaw and thrust the 
bezoar into his mouth. Ron gave a great shudder, a rattling gasp and his 
body became limp and still. 
CHAPTER 19
 
So, all in all, not one of Ron's better birthdays?" said Fred. 
 
It was evening; the hospital wing wa s quiet, the windows curtained, the 
lamps lit. Ron's was the only occupied  bed. Harry, Hermione, and Ginny 
were sitting around him; they had sp ent all day waiting outside the double 
doors, trying to see inside whenev er somebody went in or out. Madam 
Pomfrey had only let them enter at eight o'clock. Fred and George had 
arrived at ten past. 
 
"This isn't how we imagined handing over our present," said George 
grimly, putting down a large wrapped gift on Ron's bedside cabinet and 
sitting beside Ginny. 
 
"Yeah, when we pictured the scen e, he was conscious," said Fred. 
 
"There we were in Hogsmeade, waiti ng to surprise him —" said George. 
 
"You were in Hogsmeade? " asked Ginny, looking up. 
 
"We were thinking of buying Zonko's," said Fred gloomily. "A 
Hogsmeade branch, you know, but a fat lo t of good it'll do us if you lot aren't 
allowed out at weekends to buy our stuff anymon ... But never mind that 
now." 
 
He drew up a chair beside Harry and looked at Ron's pale face.  
"How exactly did it happen, Harry?" 
 
Harry retold the story he had already recounted, it felt like a hundred 
times to Dumbledore, to McGonagall, to Madam Pomfrey, to Hermione, and 
to Ginny. 
 
". . . and then I got the bezoar down his throat and his breathing eased up 
a bit, Slughorn ran for help, McGona gall and Madam Pomfrey turned up, 
and they brought Ron up here. They  reckon he'll be all right. Madam 
Pomfrey says he'll have to stay here a week or so ... keep taking essence of 
rue . . ." 
 
"Blimey, it was lucky you thought of a bezoar," said George in a low 
voice. 
 
"Lucky there was one in the room," said Harry, who kept turning cold at 
the thought of what would have happene d if he had not been able to lay 
hands on the little stone. 
 
Hermione gave an almost inaudible sniff. She had been exceptionally 
quiet all day. Having hurtled, white-faced, up to Harry outside the hospital 
wing and demanded to know what had ha ppened., she had taken almost no 
part in Harry and Ginny's obsessive discussion about how Ron had been 
poisoned, but merely stood beside them, clench-jawed and frightened-
looking, until ai last they had been allowed in to see him. 
 "Do Mum and Dad know?" Fred asked Gi nny. "They've already seen him, 
they arrived an hour ago — they're in  Dumbledore's office now, but they'll 
be back soon. . . ." 
 
There was a pause while they all watched Ron mumble  a little in his 
sleep. 
 
"So the poison was in the drink?" said Fred quietly. 
 
"Yes," said Harry at once; he could think of nothing else and was glad for 
the opportunity to start discussing it again. "Slughorn poured it out —" 
 
"Would he have been able to slip something into Ron's glass without you 
seeing?" 
 
"Probably," said Harry, "but why w ould Slughorn want to poison Ron?" 
 
"No idea," said Fred, frowning. "You don't think he coul d have mixed up 
the glasses by mistake? Meaning to get you?" 
 
"Why would Slughorn want to poison Harry?" asked Ginny. "I dunno," 
said Fred, "but there must be load s of people who'd like to poison Harry, 
mustn't there? 'The Chosen One' a nd all that?" "So you think Slughorn's a 
Death Eater?" said Ginny. :, 
 
"Anything's possible," said Fred darkly . "He could be under the Imperius 
Curse," said George. "Or he could be  innocent," said Ginny. "The poison could have been in the bottle, in which case it was probably meant for 
Slughorn himself." 
 
"Who'd want to kill Slughorn?" 
 
"Dumbledore reckons Voldemort wanted  Slughorn on his side," said 
Harry. "Slughorn was in hiding for a y ear before he came to Hogwarts. And 
. . ." He thought of the memory Dumbledore had not yet been able to extract 
from Slughorn. "And maybe Voldemort wa nts him out of the way, maybe he 
thinks he could be valuable to Dumbledore." 
 
"But you said Slughorn had been planning to give th.u Untie to 
Dumbledore for Christmas," Ginny remi nded him. "So the poisoner could 
just as easily have been after Dumbledore." 
 
"Then the poisoner didn't know Slugh orn very well," said Hermione, 
speaking for the first time in hours an d sounding as though she had a bad 
head cold. "Anyone who knew Slughor n would have I known there was a 
good chance he'd keep something that tasty for himself." I 
 
"Er-my-nee," croaked Ron unexp ectedly from between them 
 
They all fell silent, watching hi m anxiously, but after muttering 
incomprehensibly for a moment he merely started snoring. 
 
The dormitory doors flew  open, making them all jump: Hagrid came 
striding toward them, his hair rain-fleck ed, his bearskin coat flapping behind him, a crossbow in his hand, leav ing a trail of muddy dolphin-sized 
footprints all over the floor. 
 
"Bin in the forest all day!" he pant ed. "Aragog's worse, I bin readin' to 
him — didn' get up ter dinner till jus' now  an' then Professor Sprout told me 
abou' Ron! How is he?" 
 
"Not bad," said Harry. "T hey say he'll be okay." 
 
"No more than six visitors at a tim e!" said Madam Pomfrey, hurrying out 
of her office. 
 
"Hagrid makes six," George pointed out. 
 
"Oh . . . yes. .." said Madam Pomfrey,  who seemed to have been counting 
Hagrid as several people due to his va stness. To cover her confusion, she 
hurried off to clear up his muddy foot prints with her wand. 
 
"I don' believe this," said Hagrid hoa rsely, shaking his great shaggy head 
as he stared down at Ron. "Jus' don' be lieve it... Look at him lyin' there. . . . 
Who'd want ter hurt him, eh?" 
 
"That's just what we were discu ssing," said Harry. "We don't know." 
 
"Someone couldn’ have a grudge agai nst the Gryfinndor Quidditch team, 
could they?" said Hagrid anxiousl y. "Firs' Katie, now Ron . . ." 
 "I cant see anyone trying to bump off a Quidditch team," said 
 
I m urge. 
 
Wood might've done the Slytherins if he  could've got away with it," said 
Fred fairly. 
 
Well, I don't think it's Quidditch, but  I think there's a connection between 
the attacks," said Hermione quietly 
 
"How d'you work that out?" asked Fred. 
 
"Well, for one thing, they both ought to have been fatal and weren't, 
although that was pure luck. And for another, neither the poison nor the 
necklace seems to have reached the person who was (supposed to be killed. 
Of course," she added broodingly, "t hat makes the person behind this even 
more dangerous in a way, because th ey don't seem to care how many people 
they finish off In lore they  actually reach their victim." 
 
Before anybody could respond to th is ominous pronouncement, tin- 
dormitory doors opened again and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley hurried up the 
ward. They had done no more than satis fy themselves that Ron would make 
a full recovery on their last visit to the ward; now Mrs. Weasley seized hold 
of Harry and hugged him very tighty. "Dumbledore's told us how you saved 
him with the bezoar," she sobbed. "Oh,  Harry, what can we say? You saved 
Ginny . . . you saved Arthur , . . now you've saved Ron 
 "Don't be ... I didn't. . ." muttered Ha rry awkwardly. "Half our family does 
seem to owe you their lives, now I st op and think about it," Mr. Weasley 
said in a constricted voice. "Well, all I can say is that it was a lucky clay for 
the Weasleys when Ron decided to sit in your compartment on the Hogwarts 
Expirv., Harry." 
 
Harry could not think of any reply to  this and was almost gl.i«l when 
Madam Pomfrey reminded them that th ere were only supposed to be six 
visitors around Ron's bed; he and Hermione rose .h once to leave and Hagrid 
decided to go with them, leaving Ron with his family. 
 
"It's terrible," growled Hagrid into his beard, as the three ol them walked 
back along the corridor to the marble st aircase. "Ml this new security, an 
kids are still gettin' hurt. . . . Dumbledoiv's worried sick. . . . He don say much, but I can tell. . . ." 
 
"Hasn't he got any ideas, Hagrid?"  asked Hermione desperately. 
 
"I spect he's got hundreds of ideas, brain like his," said Hagrid. "But he 
doesn' know who sent that necklace nor put poison in that wine, or they'dve 
bin caught, wouldn they? Wha' worries me," said Hagrid, lowering his voice and glancing over his shou lder (Harry, for good measure, checked the 
ceiling for Peeves), "is how long Hogwar ts can stay open if kids are bein' 
attacked. Chamber o' Secret s all over again, isn' it? There'll be panic, more 
parents takin their kids outta school, an  nex' thing yeh know the board o' 
governors ..." 
 Hagrid stopped talking as the ghost of a long-haired woman drifted 
serenely past, then resumed in a hoa rse whisper, ". . . the board o' 
governors'll be talkin about shuttin' us up fer good." 
 
"Surely not?" said Hermione, looking worried. 
 
"Gotta see it from their point o' view,"  said Hagrid heav ily. "I mean, it's 
always bin a bit of a risk sendin a ki d ter Hogwarts, hasn ’ it? Yer expect 
accidents, don' yeh, with hundreds of  underage wizards all locked up 
tergether, but attempted murder, tha' s tliff'rent. 'S'no wonder Dumbledore's 
angry with Sn —" 
 
Hagrid stopped in his tracks, a fa miliar, guilty expression on what was 
visible of his face above his tangled black beard. 
 
"What?" said Harry quickly. "Dum bledore's angry with Snape?" 
 
"I never said tha’," said Hagrid, though his look of panic could not have 
been a bigger giveaway. "Look at the ti me, it's gettin' on fer midnight, I need 
ter —" 
 
"Hagrid, why is Dumbledore angry with Snape?" Harry asked loudly. 
 
"Shhhh!" said Hagrid, looking both ne rvous and angry. "Don’ shout stuff 
like that, Harry, d'yeh wan’ me ter lose me job? Mind, I don' suppose yeh'd 
care, would yeh, not now yeh' ve given up Care of Mag—" 
 "Don't try and make me feel guilty, it wont work!" said Harry forcefully. 
"What's Snape done?" 
 
"I dunno, Harry, I shouldn'ta heard it at all! I — well, I was comin’ outta 
the forest the other evenin’ an' I overheard 'em talking— well, arguin’. 
Didn't like ter draw attention to meself , so I sorta skulked an tried not ter 
listen, but it was a — well, a heated discussion an' it wasn’ easy ter block it 
out." 
 
"Well?" Harry urged him, as Hagrid shuffled his enormous feet uneasily. 
 
"Well — I jus' heard Snape sayin’ Du mbledore took too much fer granted 
an maybe he — Snape — didn’ wan’ ter do it any more —“ 
 
"Do what?" 
 
"I dunno, Harry, it sounded like Snape was feelin’ a bit overworked, tha's 
all — anyway, Dumbledore told him flat out he'd agreed ter do it an' that 
was all there was to it. Pretty firm with  him. An' then he  said summat abou’ 
Snape makin' investigations in his Hous e, in Slytherin. Well, there's nothin' 
strange abou' that!" Hagr id added hastily, as Harry  and Hermione exchanged 
looks full of meaning. "All the Heads o'  Houses were asked ter look inter 
that necklace business —" 
 
"Yeah, but Dumbledore's not having rows with the rest of them, is he?" 
said Harry. 
 "Look," Hagrid twisted his crossbow uncomfortably in his hands; there 
was a loud splintering sound and it snappe d in two. "I know what yeh're like 
abou' Snape, Harry, an' I don' want yeh ter go readin' more inter this than 
there is." 
 
"Look out," said Hermione tersely. 
 
They turned just in tim e to see the shadow of Argus Filch looming over 
the wall behind them before the man himself turned the corner, 
hunchbacked, his jowls aquiver. 
 
"Oho!" he wheezed. "Out of bed so  late, this'll mean detention!" 
 
"No it won', Filch," said Hagrid shortl y. "They're with me, aren’ they?" 
 
"And what difference does that ma ke?" asked Filch obnoxiously. 
 
"I'm a ruddy teacher, aren' I, yeh sneak in' Squib!" said Hagrid, firing up at 
once. 
 
There was a nasty hissing noise as F ilch swelled with fury; Mrs. Norris 
had arrived, unseen, and was twisti ng herself sinuously around Filch's 
skinny ankles. 
 
"Get goin," said Hagrid out of the corner of his mouth. 
 Harry did not need telling twice; he  and Hermione both hurried off; 
Hagrid's and Filch's raised voices ec hoed behind them as they ran. They 
passed Peeves near the turning into Gr yffindor Tower, but he was streaking 
happily toward the source of th e yelling, cackling and calling, 
 
  
 
When there's strife and when there's trouble 
 
Call on Peevsie, he'll make double! 
 
  
 
The Fat Lady was snoozing and not pl eased to be woken, but swung 
forward grumpily to allow them to cl amber into the mercifully peaceful and 
empty common room. It did not seem  that people knew about Ron yet; 
Harry was very relieved: He had been interrogated enough that day. 
Hermione bade him good ni ght and set off for the girls' dormitory. Harry, 
however, remained behind, taking a seat  beside the fire and looking down 
into the dying embers. 
 
So Dumbledore had argued with Snape. In spite of all he had told Harry, 
in spite of his insistence that he trus ted Snape completely, he had lost his 
temper with him. . . . He did not think that Snape had tried hard enough to 
investigate the Slytherins ... or, perhap s, to investigate a single Slytherin: 
Malfoy? 
 Was it because Dumbledore did not want Harry to do anything foolish, to 
take matters into his own hands, that he had pretended there was nothing in 
Harry's suspicions? That seemed likely.  It , might even be that Dumbledore 
did not want anything to distract Harry  from their lessons, or from procuring 
that memory from Slughorn. Perhaps Du mbledore did not think it right to 
confide suspicions about his staff to sixteen-year-olds. ... 
 
"There you are, Potter!" 
 
Harry jumped to his feet in shock, his wand at the ready. He had been 
quite convinced that the common room was empty; he had not been at all 
prepared for a hulking figure to rise sudd enly out of a distant chair. A closer 
look showed him that it was Cormac McLaggen. 
 
"I've been waiting for you to come ba ck," said McLaggen, disregarding 
Harry’s drawn wand. "Must’ve fallen asleep. Look, I saw them taking Weasley up to the hospital wing earlier. Di dn't look like he'll be fit for next 
week's match." 
 
It took Harry a few moments to realize what McLaggen was talking 
about. 
 
"Oh . . . right. . . Quidditch," he sa id, putting his wand back into the belt 
of his jeans and running a hand wearily  through his hair. "Yeah ... he might 
not make it." 
 
"Well, then, I'll be playing Ke eper, won't I?" said McLaggen.  
"Yeah," said Harry. "Yeah, I suppose so. ..." 
 
He could not think of an argument against it; after all, McLaggen had 
certainly performed second-best in the trials. 
 
"Excellent," said McLaggen in a sa tisfied voice. "So when's practice?" 
 
"What? Oh . . . there's one tomorrow evening." 
 
"Good. Listen, Potter, we should have a talk beforehand. I've got some 
ideas on strategy you might find useful." 
 
"Right," said Harry unenthusiastically . "Well, I'll hear them tomorrow, 
then. I'm pretty tired now ... see you . . ." 
 
The news that Ron had been poisoned spread quickly next day, but it did 
not cause the sensation that Katie's a ttack had done. People seemed to think 
that it might have been an accident, gi ven that he had been in the Potions 
master's room at the time, and that  as he had been given an antidote 
immediately there was no real harm done. In fact, the Gryffindors were 
generally much more interested in the upcoming Quidditch match against 
Hufflepuff, for many of them wanted to see Zacharias Smith, who played 
Chaser on the Hufflepuff team, punished soundly for his commentary during 
the opening match against Slytherin. 
 Harry, however, had never been less interested in Quidditch; he was 
rapidly becoming obsessed with Draco Malfoy. Still checking the 
Marauder's Map whenever he got a chan ce, he sometimes made detours to 
wherever Malfoy happened to be, but  had not yet detected him doing 
anything out of the ordinary. And still there were those inexplicable times 
when Malfoy simply vanished from the map. . . . 
 
But Harry did not get a lot of time to  consider the problem, what with 
Quidditch practice, homewor k, and the fact that he  was now being dogged 
wherever he went by Cormac McLaggen and Lavender Brown. 
 
He could not decide which of them  was more annoying.  McLaggen kept 
up a constant stream of hints that he  would make a bette r permanent Keeper 
for the team than Ron, and that now that Harry was seeing him play 
regularly he would surely come around to this way of thinking too; he was 
also keen to criticize the other play ers and provide Harry with detailed 
training schemes, so that more than  once Harry was forced to remind him 
who was Captain. 
 
Meanwhile, Lavender kept sidling up to Harry to discuss Ron, which 
Harry found almost more wearing than McLaggen's Quidditch lectures. At first, Lavender had been very annoye d that nobody had thought to tell her 
that Ron was in the hospital wing — "I  mean, I am his girlfriend!" — but 
unfortunately slit-had now decided to forgive Harry this lapse of memory 
and was keen to have lots of in-depth  chats with him about Ron's feelings, a 
most uncomfortable experience that Harry would have happily forgone. 
 "Look, why don't you talk to Ron abou t all this?" Harry asked, after a 
particularly long interrogation from La vender that took in everything from 
precisely what Ron had said about he r new drew robes to whether or not 
Harry thought that Ron considered hi s relationship with Lavender to be 
"serious." 
 
"Well, I would, but he's always asleep when I go and see him!" said 
Lavender fretfully. 
 
"Is he?" said Harry, surprised, for he  had found Ron perfectly alert every 
time he had been up to th e hospital wing, both highly interested in the news 
of Dumbledore and Snape's row and k een m abuse McLaggen as much as 
possible. 
 
"Is Hermione Granger still visiting him?" Lavender de manded suddenly. 
 
"Yeah, I think so. Well, they're friends, aren't they?" said Harry 
uncomfortably. 
 
"Friends, don't make me laugh," said La vender scornfully. "She didn't talk 
to him for weeks after he started going  out with me! But I suppose she wants 
to make up with him now he's all interesting. ..." 
 
"Would you call getting poisoned be ing interesting?" asked Harry. 
"Anyway — sorry, got to go — there' s McLaggen coming for a talk about 
Quidditch," said Harry hurriedly, and he dashed sideways through a door 
pretending to be solid wall and sprint ed down the shortcut that would take him off to Potions where, thankfully, neither Lavender nor McLaggen could 
follow him. 
 
On the morning of the Quidditch matc h against Hufflepuff, Harry dropped 
in on the hospital wing before headi ng down to the pitch. Ron was very 
agitated; Madam Pomfrey would not le t him go down to watch the match, 
feeling it would overexcite him. 
 
"So how's McLaggen shaping up?" he asked Harry nervously, apparently 
forgetting that he had already asked the same question twice. 
 
"I've told you," said Harry patiently , "he could be world-class and I 
wouldn't want to keep him. He keeps tr ying to tell everyone what to do, he 
thinks he could play every position better than the rest of us. I can't wait to 
be shot of him. And speaking of ge tting shot of people," Harry added, 
getting to his feet and picking up his Firebolt, "will you stop pretending to 
be asleep when Lavender comes to se e you? She's driving me mad as well." 
 
"Oh," said Ron, looking sheepish. "Yeah. All right." 
 
"If you don't want to go out with her anymore, just tell her," said Harry. 
 
"Yeah . . . well. . . it's not that eas y, is it?" said Ron. He paused. 
"Hermione going to look in before  the match?" he added casually. 
 
"No, she's already gone down to the pitch with Ginny." 
 "Oh," said Ron, looki ng rather glum. "Right. Well, good luck. Hope you 
hammer McLag — I mean, Smith." 
 
"I'll try," said Harry, shouldering his broom. "See you after the match." 
 
He hurried down through the deserted corridors; the whole school was 
outside, either already seated in the st adium or heading down toward it. He 
was looking out of the windows he passe d, trying to gauge how much wind 
they were facing, when a noise ah ead made him glance up and he saw 
Malfoy walking toward him, accompanied by two girls, both of whom 
looked sulky and resentful. 
 
Malfoy stopped short at the sight of Harry, then gave a short, humorless 
laugh and continued walking. 
 
"Where're you going? " Harry demanded. 
 
"Yeah, I'm really going to tell you, because it's your business, Potter," 
sneered Malfoy. "You'd better hurry up, they'll be waiting for 'the Chosen Captain' — 'the Boy Who Scored' — whatever they call you these days." 
 
One of the girls gave an unwilling gi ggle. Harry stared at her. She 
blushed. Malfoy pushed past  Harry and she and her fri end followed at a trot, 
turning the corner and vanishing from view. 
 
Harry stood rooted on the spot and watched them disappear. This was 
infuriating; he was already cutting it fi ne to get to the match on time and yet there was Malfoy, skulking off while the rest of the school was absent: 
Harry's best chance yet of discovering what Malfoy was up to. The silent 
seconds trickled past, and Harry rema ined where he was, frozen, gazing at 
the place where Malfoy had vanished. . . . 
 
"Where have you been?" demanded Ginny, as Harry sprinted into the 
changing rooms. The whole team was changed and ready; Coote and Peakes, 
the Beaters, were both hitting their clubs nervously against their legs. 
 
"I met Malfoy," Harry told her quietly , as he pulled his scarlet robes over 
his head. 
 
"So I wanted to know how come he's up at the castle with a couple of 
girlfriends while everyone else is down here. ..." 
 
"Does it matter right now?" 
 
"Well, I'm not likely to find out, am I?" said Harry, seiz ing his Firebolt 
and pushing his glasses straight. "Come on then!" 
 
And without another word, he marche d out onto the pitch to deafening 
cheers and boos. 
 
There was little wind; the clouds were  patchy; every now and then there 
were dazzling flashes of bright sunlight. 
 "Tricky conditions!" McLaggen said bracingly to the team. "Coote, 
Peakes, you'll want to fly out of the sun, so they don't see you coming —" 
 
"I'm the Captain, McLaggen, shut up  giving them instructions," said 
Harry angrily. "Just get up by the goal posts!" 
 
Once McLaggen had marche d off, Harry turned to Coote and Peakes. 
 
"Make sure you do fly out of the s un," he told them grudgingly. 
 
He shook hands with the Hufflepuff Captain, and then, on Madam 
Hooch's whistle, kicked off and rose into  the air, higher than the rest of his 
team, streaking around the pitch in search of the Snitch. If he could catch it 
good and early, there might be a chance he could get back up to the castle, 
seize the Marauder's Ma p, and find out what Malfoy was doing. . . . 
 
"And that's Smith of Hufflepuff with the Quaffle," said a dreamy voice, 
echoing over the grounds. "He did the co mmentary last time, of course, and 
Ginny Weasley flew into him, I think probably on purpose, it looked like it. Smith was being quite rude about Gryffindor, I expect he regrets that now 
he's playing them — oh, look, he's lost the Quaffle, Ginny took it from him, 
I do like her, she's very nice. ..." 
 
Harry stared down at the commentat or's podium. Surely nobody in their 
right mind would have let Luna Lovegood commentate? But even from 
above there was no mistaking that long,  dirty-blonde hair, nor the necklace 
of butterbeer corks. . . . Beside Luna, Professor McG onagall was looking slightly uncomfortable, as though sh e was indeed having second thoughts 
about this appointment. 
 
". . . but now that big Hufflepuff player 's got the Quaffle from , her, I can't 
remember his name, it's something like Bibble — no, Buggins —" 
 
"It's Cadwallader!" said Professor Mc Gonagall loudly from beside Luna. 
The crowd laughed. 
 
Harry stared around for the Snitch; ther e was no sign of it. Moments later, 
Cadwallader scored. McLaggen had be en shouting criticism at Ginny for 
allowing the Quaffle out of her possessi on, with the result that he had not 
noticed the large red ball soaring past his right ear. 
 
"McLaggen, will you pay attention to  what you're supposed to be doing 
and leave everyone else alone!" bello wed Harry, wheeling around to face his 
Keeper. 
 
"You're not setting a great example! " McLaggen shouted back, red-faced 
and furious. 
 
"And Harry Potter's now having an argu ment with his Keeper," said Luna 
serenely, while both Hufflepuffs and Slytherins belo w in the crowd cheered 
and jeered. "I don't think that'll help him find the Snitch, but maybe it's a 
clever ruse. ..." 
 Swearing angrily, Harry spun round an d set off around the pitch again, 
scanning the skies for some sign of the tiny, winged golden ball. 
 
Ginny and Demelza scored a goal apiece, giving the red-and-gold-clad 
supporters below something to cheer about. Then Cadwallader scored again, 
making things level, but Luna did not seem to have noticed; she appeared 
singularly uninterested in such mundane  things as the score, and kept 
attempting to draw the crowd's attenti on to such things as interestingly 
shaped clouds and the possibility that Z acharias Smith, who had so far failed 
to maintain possession of the Quaffle for longer than a minute, was suffering 
from something called "Loser's Lurgy." 
 
"Seventy-forty to Hufflepuff!" barked  Professor McGonagall into Luna's 
megaphone. 
 
"Is it, already?" said Luna vaguely. "Oh, look! The Gryffindor Keeper's 
got hold of one of the Beater's bats." 
 
Harry spun around in midair. Sure enough, McLaggen, for reasons best 
known to himself, had pulled Peakes's  bat from him and appeared to be 
demonstrating how to hit a Bludger toward an oncoming Cadwallader. 
 
"Will you give him back his bat and get back to the goal posts!" roared 
Harry, pelting toward McLaggen just as  McLaggen took a ferocious swipe at 
the Bludger and mishit it. 
 A blinding, sickening pain ... a flash of light. . . distant screams . . . and 
the sensation of falling down a long tunnel. . . 
 
And the next thing Harry knew, he wa s lying in a remarkably warm and 
comfortable bed and looking up at a la mp that was throwing a circle of 
golden light onto a shadowy ceiling. He raised his head awkwardly. There 
on his left was a familiar-looking , freckly, red-haired person. 
 
"Nice of you to drop in," said Ron, grinning. 
 
Harry blinked and looked around. Of co urse: He was in the hospital wing. 
The sky outside was indigo streaked wi th crimson. The match must have 
finished hours ago ... as had any hope of  cornering Malfoy. Harry's head felt 
strangely heavy; he raised a hand a nd felt a stiff turban of bandages. 
 
"What happened?" 
 
"Cracked skull," said Madam Pomfre y, bustling up and pushing him back 
against his pillows. "Nothing to worry about, I mended it at once, but I'm 
keeping you in overnight. You shou ldn't over exert yourself for a few 
hours." 
 
"I don't want to stay here overnight,"  said Harry angrily, sitting up and 
throwing back his covers. "I want to find McLaggen and kill him." 
 
"I'm afraid that would come under th e heading of 'overexertion,'" said 
Madam Pomfrey, pushing him firmly back onto the bed and raising her wand in a threatening manner. "You w ill stay here until I discharge you, 
Potter, or I shall call the headmaster." 
 
She bustled back into her office, a nd Harry sank back into his pillows, 
fuming. 
 
"D'you know how much we lost by? " he asked Ron through clenched 
teeth. 
 
"Well, yeah I do," said Ron apologeti cally. "Final score was three hundred 
and twenty to sixty." 
 
"Brilliant," said Harry savagely. "R eally brilliant! When I get hold of 
McLaggen —" 
 
"You don't want to get hold of him, he's the size of a troll," said 
 
Ron reasonably. "Personally, I think ther e's a lot to be said for hexing him 
with that toenail thing of the Prince's . Anyway, the rest of the team might've 
dealt with him before you get out of here, they're not happy. ..." 
 
There was a note of badly suppressed glee in Rons voice; Harry could tell 
he was nothing short of thrilled th at McLaggen had messed up so badly. 
Harry lay there, staring up at the patc h of light on the ceiling, his recently 
mended skull not hurting, precisely, but feeling slightly tender underneath 
all the bandaging. 
 "I could hear the match commentary from here," said Ron, his voice now 
shaking with laughter. "I hope Luna al ways commentates from now on. . . . 
Loser's Lurgy ..." 
 
But Harry was still too angry to see much humor in the situation, and after 
a while Ron's snorts subsided. 
 
"Ginny came in to visit while you were unconscious," he said, after a long 
pause, and Harry's imagination zoomed into overdrive, rapidly constructing 
a scene in which Ginny, weeping over  his lifeless form, confessed her 
feelings of deep attraction to him while  Ron gave them his blessing. . . ."She 
reckons you only just arrived on time for the match. How come? You left 
here early enough." 
 
"Oh . . ." said Harry, as the scene in  his mind's eye imploded. "Yeah . . . 
well, I saw Malfoy sneaking off with a couple of girls who didn't look like 
they wanted to be with him, and that 's the second time he's made sure he 
isn't down on the Quidditch pitch with th e rest of the school; he skipped the 
last match too, remember?" Harry si ghed. "Wish I'd followed him now, the 
match was such a fiasco. . . ." 
 
"Don't be stupid," said Ron shar ply. "You couldn't have missed a 
Quidditch match just to follo w Malfoy, you're the Captain!" 
 
"I want to know what he's up to," said Harry. "And don't tell nn its all in 
my head, not after what I overh eard between him and Snape —" 
 "I never said it was all in  your head," said Ron, hoisting himself up on an 
elbow in turn and frowning at Harry, "but there's no rule saying only one 
person at a time can be plotting anythi ng in this place! You're getting a bit 
obsessed with Malfoy, Harry. I mean, thi nking about missing a match just to 
follow him ..." 
 
"I want to catch him at it!" said Harry  in frustration. "I mean, where's he 
going when he disappears off the map?" 
 
"I dunno . . . Hogsmeade?" suggested Ron, yawning. 
 
"I've never seen him going along any of the secret passageway on the 
map. I thought they were being watched now anyway?" 
 
"Well then, I dunno," said Ron. 
 
Silence fell between them. Harry stared up at the circle of lamp light 
above him, thinking. . . . 
 
If only he had Rufus Scrimgeour's power , he would have been able to set 
a tail upon Malfoy, but unfor tunately Harry did not have an office full of 
Aurors at his command. . . . He thought  fleetingly of trying to set something 
up with the D.A., but there again was the problem that people would be 
missed from lessons; most of them, afte r all, still had full schedules. . . . 
 
There was a low, rumbling snore from Ron's bed. After a while Madam 
Pomfrey came out of her office, this time wearing a thick dressing gown. It was easiest to feign sleep; Harry rolled over onto his side and listened to all 
the curtains closing themselves as she waved her wand. The lamps dimmed, 
and she returned to her office; he h eard the door click behind her and knew 
that she was off to bed. 
 
This was, Harry reflected in the darkness, the third time that he had been 
brought to the hospital wing because of a Quidditch injury. Last time he had 
fallen off his broom due to the presence of dementors around the pitch, and 
the time before that, all the bones ha d been removed from his arm by the 
incurably inept Professor Lockhart. . . . That had been his most painful 
injury by far ... he remembered the agony of regrowing an armful of bones in 
one night, a discomfort not eased by th e arrival of an unexpected visitor in 
the middle of the — 
 
Harry sat bolt upright, his heart po unding, his bandage turban askew. He 
had the solution at last: There was a way to have Malfoy followed — how 
could he have forgotten, why hadn't he thought 
 
of it before? 
 
But the question was, how to ca ll him? What did you do? Quietly, 
tentatively, Harry spoke into the darkness. 
 
"Kreacher?" 
 
There was a very loud crack, and th e sounds of scuffling and squeaks 
filled the silent room. Ron awoke with a yelp.  
"What's going — ?" 
 
Harry pointed his wand hastily at th e door of Madam Pomfrey's office and 
muttered, "Muffliato!" so that sh e would not come running. Then he 
scrambled to the end of hi s bed for a better look at 
 
what was going on. 
 
Two house-elves were rolling around on the floor in the middle of the 
dormitory, one wearing a shrunken mar oon jumper and several woolly hats, 
the other, a filthy old rag strung over hi s hips like a loincloth. Then there 
was another loud bang, and Peeves the Poltergeist appeared in midair above 
the wrestling elves. 
 
"I was watching that, Potty!" he told Harry indignantly, pointing at the 
fight below, before letting out a loud cackle. "Look at the ickle creatures 
squabbling, bitey b itey, punchy punchy —" 
 
"Kreacher will not insult Harry Potter in  front of Dobby, no  he won't, or 
Dobby will shut Kreacher's mouth for him!" cried Dobby in a high-pitched 
voice. 
 
"— kicky, scratchy!" cried Peeves ha ppily, now pelting bits of' chalk at 
the elves to enrage them further. "Tweaky, pokey!" 
 "Kreacher will say what he likes a bout his master, oh yes, and what a 
master he is, filthy friend of Mudblo ods, oh, what would poor Kreacher's 
mistress say — ?" 
 
Exactly what Kreacher's mistress woul d have said they did not find out, 
for at that moment Dobby sank his knobbly little fist into Kreacher’s mouth 
and knocked out half of his teeth. Harry and Ron both leapt out of their beds 
and wrenched the two elves apart, thou gh they continued to try and kick and 
punch each other, egged on by Peev es, who swooped around the lamp 
squealing, "Stick your fingers up hi s nosey, draw his cork and pull his 
earsies —" 
 
Harry aimed his wand at Peeves and sa id, "Langlock!" Peeves clutched at 
his throat, gulped, then swooped from the room making obscene gestures but 
unable to speak, owing to the fact that his tongue had just glued itself to the 
roof of his mouth. 
 
"Nice one," said Ron appreciatively, lif ting Dobby into the air so that his 
flailing limbs no longer made contact with Kreacher. "That was another 
Prince hex, wasn't it?" 
 
"Yeah," said Harry, twisting Kreacher's  wizened arm into a half nelson. 
"Right — I'm forbidding you to fi ght each other! Well, Kreacher, you're 
forbidden to fight Dobby. Dobby, I know  I'm not allowed to give you orders 
—" 
 "Dobby is a free house-elf and he ca n obey anyone he likes and Dobby 
will do whatever Harry Potter wants him to do!" said Dobby, tears now 
streaming down his shriveled little face onto his jumper. 
 
"Okay then," said Harry, and he and Ron both released the elves, who fell 
to the floor but did not continue fighting. 
 
"Master called me?" croaked Kreacher , sinking into a bow even as he 
gave Harry a look that plainly wished him a painful death. 
 
"Yeah, I did," said Harry, glancing toward Madam Pomfrey's office door 
to check that the Muffliato spell was still working; there was no sign that she 
had heard any of the commotion. "I've got a job for you." 
 
"Kreacher will do whatever Master wa nts," said Kreacher, sinking so low 
that his lips almost touched his gnarled toes, "because Kreacher has no 
choice, but Kreacher is ashamed to have such a master, yes —" 
 
"Dobby will do it, Harry Potter!" sque aked Dobby, his tennis-ball-sized 
eyes still swimming in tears. "Dobby would be honored to help Harry 
Potter!" 
 
"Come to think of it, it would be good  to have both of you," said Harry. 
"Okay then ... I want you to tail Draco Malfoy." 
 Ignoring the look of mingled surprise  and exasperation on Ron's face, 
Harry went on, "I want to know wher e he's going, who he's meeting, and 
what he's doing. I want you to follow him around the clock." 
 
"Yes, Harry Potter!" said Dobby at on ce, his great eyes shining with 
excitement. "And if Dobby does it wr ong, Dobby will throw himself off the 
topmost tower, Harry Potter!" 
 
"There won't be any need for that," said Harry hastily. 
 
"Master wants me to follow the yo ungest of the Malfoys?" croaked 
Kreacher. "Master wants me to spy upon the pure-blood great-nephew of my 
old mistress?" 
 
"That's the one," said Harry, foreseei ng a great danger a nd determining to 
prevent it immediately. "And you're forbi dden to tip him off, Kreacher, or to 
show him what you're up to, or to talk to  him at all, or to write him messages 
or ... or to contact him in any way. Got it?" 
 
He thought he could see Kreacher struggling to see a loophole in the 
instructions he had just been given a nd waited. After a moment or two, and 
to Harrys great satisfaction, Kreacher bowed deeply again and said, with 
bitter resentment, "Master thinks of everything, and Kreacher must obey him 
even though Kreacher would much rather be the servant of the Malfoy boy, oh yes. . . ." 
 "That's settled, then," said Harry. "I' ll want regular reports, but make sure 
I'm not surrounded by people when yo u turn up. Ron and Hermione are 
okay. And don't tell anyone what you're doing. Just stick to Malfoy like a 
couple of wart plasters." 
CHAPTER 20
 
Harry and Ron left the hospital wi ng first thing on Monday morning, 
restored to full health by the ministra tions of Madam Pomfrey and now able 
to enjoy the benefits of having been knocked out and poiso ned, the best of 
which was that Hermione was friends  with Ron again. Hermione even 
escorted them down to breakfast, bringi ng with her the news that Ginny had 
argued with Dean. The drowsing creature in  Harry's chest suddenly raised its 
head, sniffing the air hopefully. 
 
"What did they row about?" he asked,  trying to sound casual as they 
turned onto a seventh-floor corridor th at was deserted but for a very small 
girl who had been examining a tapestry of  trolls in tutus. She looked terrified 
at the sight of the approaching sixth years and dropped the heavy brass 
scales she was carrying. 
 
"It's all right!" said Hermione kindly,  hurrying forward to help her. "Here 
..." 
 
She tapped the broken scales with he r wand and said, "Reparo." The girl 
did not say thank you, but remained rooted to the spot as they passed and watched them out of sight; Ron glanced back at her. 
 
"I swear they're getti ng smaller," he said. 
 
"Never mind her," said Harry, a little  impatiently. "What did Ginny and 
Dean row about, Hermione?"  
"Oh, Dean was laughing about Mc Laggen hitting that Bludgu at you," 
said Hermione. 
 
"It must've looked funny," said Ron re asonably. "It didn't look funny at 
all!" said Hermione hotly. "It looked te rrible and if Coote and Peakes hadn't 
caught Harry he could have been very badly hurt!" 
 
"Yeah, well, there was no need for Ginny and Dean to split up over it," 
said Harry, still trying to sound cas ual. "Or are they still together?" 
 
"Yes, they are — but why are you so in terested?" asked Hermione, giving 
Harry a sharp look. 
 
"I just don't want my Quidditch team  messed up again!" he said hastily, 
but Hermione continued to look suspic ious, and he was mo st relieved when 
a voice behind them called, "Harry!" givi ng him an excuse to  turn his back 
on her. "Oh, hi, Luna." 
 
- "I went to the hospital wing to fi nd you," said Luna, rummaging in her 
bag. "But they said you'd left..." 
 
She thrust what appeared to be a green onion, a large spotted toadstool, 
and a considerable amount of what looked like cat litter into Ron's hands, 
finally pulling out a rather grubby scroll of parchment that she handed to 
Harry. 
 ". . . I've been told to give you this." 
 
It was a small roll of parchment,  which Harry recognized at once as 
another invitation to a lesson with Dumbledore. 
 
"Tonight," he told Ron and Herm ione, once he had unrolled it. 
 
"Nice commentary last match!" said Ron to Luna as she took back the 
green onion, the toadstool, and the cat litter. Luna smiled vaguely. 
 
"You're making fun of me, aren't you? " she said. "Everyone says I was 
dreadful." 
 
"No, I'm serious!" said Ron earnestly. "I can't remember enjoying 
commentary more! What is this, by the way?" he added, holding the 
onionlike object up to eye level. 
 
"Oh, it's a Gurdyroot," she said, st uffing the cat litter and the toadstool 
back into her bag. "You can keep it if you like, I've got a few of them. 
They're really excellent for warding o ff Gulping Plimpies." And she walked 
away, leaving Ron chortling, still clutching the Gurdyroot. 
 
"You know, she's grown on me, Luna," he  said, as they set off again for 
the Great Hall. "I know she's insane, but it's in a good —" He stopped 
talking very suddenly. Lavender Brown was standing at the foot of the 
marble staircase looking thunder ous. "Hi," said Ron nervously. 
 "C'mon," Harry muttered to Hermione , and they sped past, though not 
before they had heard Lavender sa y, "Why didn't you tell me you were 
getting out today? And why was she with you?" 
 
Ron looked both sulky and annoyed when he appeared at breakfast half an 
hour later, and though he sat with Lavender, Harry did not see them 
exchange a word all the time they were together. Hermione was acting as 
though she was quite oblivious to all of  this, but once or twice Harry saw an 
inexplicable smirk cross her face. A ll that day she seemed to be in a 
particularly good mood, and that evening in the common room she even 
consented to look over (in other word s, finish writing) Harry's Herbology 
essay, something she had been resolutely refusing to do up to this point, because she had known that Harry w ould then let Ron copy his work. 
 
"Thanks a lot, Hermione," said Harry , giving her a hasty pat on the back 
as he checked his watch and saw that it was nearly eight o'clock. "Listen, 
I’ve got to hurry or I'll be late for Dumbledore. ..." 
 
She did not answer, but merely crosse d out a few of his feebler sentences 
in a weary sort of way. Grinning, Harry hurried out through the portrait hole 
and off to the headmasters office. The gargoyle leapt aside at the mention of 
toffee eclairs, and Harry took the spir al staircase two steps at a time, 
knocking on the door just as a clock within chimed eight. 
 
"Enter," called Dumbledore, but as Ha rry put out a hand to push the door, 
it was wrenched open from inside. There stood Professor Trelawney. 
 "Aha!" she cried, pointing dramatica lly at Harry as she blinked at him 
through her magnifying spectacles. 
 
"So this is the reason I am to be thrown unceremoniously from your 
office, Dumbledore!" 
 
"My dear Sybill," said Dumbledore in a slightly exasperated voice, "there 
is no question of throwing you uncer emoniously from a nywhere, but Harry 
does have an appointment, and I really don't think there is any more to be 
said —" 
 
"Very well," said Professor Trelawne y, in a deeply wounded voice. "If 
you will not banish the usurping nag, so be it. ... 
 
Perhaps I shall find a school where my talents are better appreciated. ..." 
 
She pushed past Harry and disappeared  down the spiral staircase; they 
heard her stumble halfway down, and Harry guessed that she had tripped 
over one of her trailing shawls. 
 
"Please close the door and sit down,  Harry," said Dumbledore, sounding 
rather tired. 
 
Harry obeyed, noticing as he took his usual seat in front of Dumbledore's 
desk that the Pensieve lay between them once more, as did two more tiny 
crystal bottles full of swirling memory. 
 "Professor Trelawney still isn't happy Fi renze is teaching,  then?" Harry 
asked. 
 
"No," said Dumbledore, "Divination is turning out to be much more 
trouble than I could have foreseen, ne ver having studied the subject myself. I 
cannot ask Firenze to return to the fo rest, where he is now an outcast, nor 
can I ask Sybill Trelawney to leave. Between ourselves, she has no idea of 
the danger she would be in outside the castle. She does not know — and I 
think it would be unwise to enlighten  her — that she made the prophecy 
about you and Voldemort, you see." 
 
Dumbledore heaved a deep  sigh, then said, "But never mind my staffing 
problems. We have much more important matters to discuss. Firstly — have 
you managed the task I set you at th e end of our previous lesson?" 
 
"Ah," said Harry, brought up short. What with Apparition lessons and 
Quidditch and Ron being poisoned an d getting his skull cracked and his 
determination to find out what Draco  Malfoy was up to, Harry had almost 
forgotten about the memory Dumble dore had asked him to extract from 
Professor Slughorn. "Well, I asked Professor Slughorn about it at the end of 
Potions, sir, but, er, he wouldn't give it to me." There was a little silence. 
 
"I see," said Dumbledore eventually, peering at Harry over the top of his 
half-moon spectacles and giving Harry the usual sensation that he was being 
X-rayed. "And you feel that  you have exerted your very  best efforts in this 
matter, do you? That you have exercised all of your considerable ingenuity? That you have left no depth of cunning unplumbed in your quest to retrieve 
the memory?" 
 
"Well," Harry stalled, at a loss for what to say next. His single attempt to 
get hold of the memory suddenly seem ed embarrassingly feeble. "Well . . . 
the day Ron swallowed love potion by mistake I took him to Professor 
Slughorn. I thought ma ybe if I got Professor Slughorn in a good enough 
mood —" "And did that work?" asked Dumbledore. "Well, no, sir, because 
Ron got poisoned —" "— which, naturally , made you forget all about trying 
to retrieve the memory; I would have expected nothing else, while your best 
friend was in danger. Once it became clear that Mr. Weasley was going to 
make a full recovery, however, I would have hoped that you returned to the 
task I set you. I thought I made it cl ear to you how very important that 
memory is. Indeed, I did my best to impress upon you that it is the most 
crucial memory of all and that we will be wasting our time without it." 
 
A hot, prickly feeling of shame spread from the top of Harry’s head all the 
way down his body. Dumbledore had not raised his voice, he did not even 
sound angry, but Harry would have preferred hi m to yell; this cold 
disappointment was worse than anything. 
 
"Sir," he said, a little desperately, "it isn't that I wasn't bothered or 
anything, I've just had other — other things . . ." 
 
"Other things on your mind," Dumble dore finished the sentence for him. 
"I see." 
 Silence fell between them again, th e most uncomfortable silence Harry 
had ever experienced with Dumble dore; it seemed to go on and on, 
punctuated only by the little grunting snores of the portrait of Armando 
Dippet over Dumbledore's head. Harry felt strangely diminished, as though 
he had shrunk a little since he had ente red the room. When he could stand it 
no longer he said, "Professor Dumbledor e, I'm really sorry. I should have 
done more. ... I should have realized you wouldn't have asked me to do it if 
it wasn't really important." 
 
"Thank you for saying that, Harry," said Dumbledore quietly. "May I 
hope, then, that you will give this matte r higher priority from now on? There 
will be little point in our meeting after tonight unless we have that memory." 
 
"I'll do it, sir, I'll get it fro m him," he said earnestly. 
 
"Then we shall say no more about it just now," said Dumbledore more 
kindly, "but continue with our story wh ere we left off. You remember where 
that was?" 
 
"Yes, sir," said Harry quickly. "Vol demort killed his father and his 
grandparents and made it look as though his Uncle Morfin did it. Then he went back to Hogwarts and he aske d ... he asked Profe ssor Slughorn about 
Horcruxes," he mumbled shamefacedly. 
 
"Very good," said Dumbledore. "Now, you will remember, I hope, that I 
told you at the very outset of these meetings of ours that we would be 
entering the realms of guesswork and speculation?"  
“Yes, sir”. 
 
"Thus far, as I hope you agree, I have shown you reasonably firm sources 
of fact for my deductions as to what Voldemort did until the age of 
seventeen?" 
 
Harry nodded. 
 
"But now, Harry," said Dumbledore, "now things become murkier and 
stranger. If it was difficult to find evidence about the boy Riddle, it has been almost impossible to find anyone prepared to reminisce about the man 
Voldemort. In fact, I doubt whether there is a soul alive, apart from himself, 
who could give us a full account of his life since he left Hogwarts. However, 
I have two last memories that I woul d like to share with you." Dumbledore 
indicated the two little crystal bottles gl eaming beside the Pensieve. "I shall 
then be glad of your opinion as to whether the conclusions I have drawn 
from them seem likely." 
 
The idea that Dumbledore valued his opinion this highly made Harry feel 
even more deeply ashamed that he ha d failed in the task of retrieving the 
Horcrux memory, and he shifted guiltily in  his seat as Dumbledore raised the 
first of the two bottles to the light and examined it. 
 
"I hope you are not tired of diving into other people's memories, for they 
are curious recollections, these two," he said. "This first one came from a very old house-elf by the name of Hokey. Before we see what Hokey 
witnessed, I must quickly recount how Lord Voldemort left Hogwarts. 
 
"He reached the seventh year of his schooling with, as you might have 
expected, top grades in every examination he had taken. All around him, his 
classmates were deciding which jobs th ey were to pursue once they had left 
Hogwarts. Nearly everybody expected spectacular things from Tom Riddle, 
prefect, Head Boy, winner of the Award for Special Services to the School. I 
know that several teachers, Professor Slughorn amongst them, suggested that 
he join the Ministry of Magic, offe red to set up appointments, put him in 
touch with useful contacts. He refuse d all offers. The next thing the staff 
knew, Voldemort was working at Borgin and Burkes." 
 
"At Borgin and Burkes?" Harry repeated, stunned. 
 
"At Borgin and Burkes," repeated Du mbledore calmly. "I think you will 
see what attractions the place held fo r him when we have  entered Hokey's 
memory. But this was not Voldemort's first choice of job. Hardly anyone 
knew of it at the time — I was one of th e few in whom the then headmaster 
confided — but Voldemort first appr oached Professor Dippet and asked 
whether he could remain at Hogwarts as a teacher." 
 
"He wanted to stay here? Why?" asked Harry, more amazed still. 
 
 "I believe he had several reasons, though he confided none of them to 
Professor Dippet," said Dumbledore. "Firstly, and very importantly, Voldemort was, I believe, more attached to this school than he has ever been to a person. Hogwarts was where he had been happiest; the first and only 
place he had felt at home." 
 
Harry felt slightly uncomfortable at th ese words, for this was exactly how 
he felt about Hogwarts too. 
 
"Secondly, the castle is a stronghol d of ancient magic. Undoubtedly 
Voldemort had penetrated many more of its secrets than most of the students 
who pass through the place, but he may have felt that there were still 
mysteries to unravel, stores of magic to tap. 
 
"And thirdly, as a teacher, he would have had great power and influence 
over young witches and wizards. Perhap s he had gained the idea from 
Professor Slughorn, the teac her with whom he was on best term s, who had 
demonstrated how influential a role a teacher can play. I do not imagine for an instant that Voldemort envisaged spending the rest of his life at 
Hogwarts, but I do think that he saw it as a useful recruiting ground, and a 
place where he might begin to  build himself an army." 
 
"But he didn't get the job, sir?" 
 
"No, he did not. Professor Dippet to ld him that he was too young at 
eighteen, but invited him to reapply in a few years, if he still wished to 
teach." 
 
"How did you feel about that, sir?" asked Harry hesitantly. "Deeply 
uneasy," said Dumbledore. "I had advised Armando against the appointment — I did not give the reasons I have gi ven you, for Professor Dippet was very 
fond of Voldemort and convinced of his honesty. But I did not want Lord 
Voldemort back at this school, and es pecially not in a position of power." 
 
"Which job did he want, sir? What subject did he want to teach?" 
 
Somehow, Harry knew the answer ev en before Dumbledore gave it. 
 
"Defense Against the Dark Arts. It wa s being taught at the time by an old 
Professor by the name of Galatea Merrythought, who had been at Hogwarts for nearly fifty years. 
 
"So Voldemort went off to Borgin and Burkes, and all the staff who had 
admired him said what a waste it was, a brilliant young wizard like that, 
working in a shop. Howeve r, Voldemort was no mere  assistant. Polite and 
handsome and clever, he was soon given par ticular jobs of the type that only 
exist in a place like Borgin and Bu rkes, which specializes, as you know, 
Harry, in objects with unusual and powerful properties. Vo ldemort was sent 
to persuade people to part with their treasures for sale by the partners, and he was, by all accounts, unusually gifted at doing this." 
 
"I'll bet he was," said Harry, unable to contain himself. 
 
"Well, quite," said Dumbledore, with a faint smile. "And now it is time to 
hear from Hokey the house-elf, who worked  for a very old, very rich witch 
by the name of Hepzibah Smith." 
 Dumbledore tapped a bottle with his wa nd, the cork flew out, and he 
tipped the swirling memory into the Pensieve, saying as he did so, "After 
you, Harry." 
 
Harry got to his feet and bent once mo re over the rippling silver contents 
of the stone basin until his face t ouched them. He tumbled through dark 
nothingness and landed in a sitting room in front of an immensely fat old 
lady wearing an elaborate ginger wig and a brilliant pink set of robes that 
flowed all around her, giving her the look of a melting iced cake. She was 
looking into a small jeweled mirror a nd dabbing rouge onto her already 
scarlet cheeks with a large powder pu ff, while the tiniest and oldest house-
elf Harry had ever seen laced her fl eshy feet into tight satin slippers. 
 
"Hurry up, Hokey!" said Hepzibah im periously. "He said he'd come at 
four, it's only a couple of minutes to  and he's never been late yet!" 
 
She tucked away her powder puff as the house-elf straightened up. The 
top of the elf's head barely reached th e seat of Hepzibah's chair, and her 
papery skin hung off her frame just like the crisp linen sheet she wore 
draped like a toga. 
 
"How do I look?" said Hepzibah, turning her head to admire the various 
angles of her face in the mirror. 
 
"Lovely, madam," squeaked Hokey. 
 Harry could only assume that it was down in Hokey’s contract that she 
must lie through her teeth when aske d this question, because Hepzibah 
Smith looked a long way from lovely in his opinion. 
 
A tinkling doorbell rang and bot h mistress and elf jumped. 
 
"Quick, quick, he's here, Hokey!" crie d Hepzibah and the elf scurried out 
of the room, which was so crammed wi th objects that it was difficult to see 
how anybody could navigate their way across it without knocking over at 
least a dozen things: There were cabine ts full of little lacquered boxes, cases 
full of gold-embossed books, shelves of  orbs and celestial globes, and many 
flourishing potted plants in brass containers. In fact, the room looked like a 
cross between a magical anti que shop and a conservatory. 
 
 The house-elf returned within minutes, followed by a tall young man 
Harry had no difficulty whatsoever in recognizing as Voldemort. He was 
plainly dressed in a black suit; his hair  was a little longer than it had been at 
school and his cheeks were hollowed, but all of this suite d him; he looked 
more handsome than ever. He picked  his way through the cramped room 
with an air that showed he had vi sited many times before and bowed low 
over Hepzibah's fat little hand,  brushing it with his lips. 
 
"I brought you flowers," he said qui etly, producing a bunch of roses from 
nowhere. 
 
"You naughty boy, you sh ouldn't have!" squealed old Hepzibah, though 
Harry noticed that she had an empty va se standing ready on the nearest little table. "You do spoil this old lady, Tom.  ... Sit down, sit down. . . . Where's 
Hokey? Ah ..." 
  
The house-elf had come dashing back into the room carrying a tray of 
little cakes, which she set at her mistress's elbow. 
 
"Help yourself, Tom," said Hepzibah , "I know how you love my cakes. 
Now, how are you? You look pale. They ove rwork you at that shop, I've said 
it a hundred times. ..." 
 
Voldemort smiled mechanically  and Hepzibah simpered. 
 
"Well, what's your excuse for visiting this time?" she asked, bat-ring her 
lashes. 
 
"Mr. Burke would like to make an  improved offer for the goblin-made 
armor," said Voldemort. "Five hundred Galleons, he feels it is a more than 
fair —" 
 
"Now, now, not so fast, or I’ll think you're only here for my trinkets!" 
pouted Hepzibah. 
 
"I am ordered here because of them,"  said Voldemort quietly. "I am only a 
poor assistant, madam, who must do as he is told. Mr. Bu rke wishes me to 
inquire —" 
 "Oh, Mr. Burke, phooey!" said He pzibah, waving a little hand. "I've 
something to show you that I've neve r shown Mr. Burke! Can you keep a 
secret, Tom? Will you promise you won't tell Mr. Burke I've got it? He'd 
never let me rest if he knew I'd shown it to you, and I'm not selling, not to 
Burke, not to anyone! But you, Tom, you' ll appreciate it for its history, not 
how many Galleons you can get for it." 
 
"I'd be glad to see anything Miss He pzibah shows me," said Voldemort 
quietly, and Hepzibah gave another girlish giggle. 
 
"I had Hokey bring it out for me . . . Hokey, where are you? I want to 
show Mr. Riddle our finest treasure. ... In  fact, bring both, while you're at it. 
..." 
 
"Here, madam," sq ueaked the house-elf, and Ha rry saw two leather boxes, 
one on top of the other, moving across the room as if of their own volition, 
though he knew the tiny elf was holding  them over her head as she wended 
her way between tables, ***po uffes, and footstools. 
 
"Now," said Hepzibah happily, taking the boxes from the elf, laying them 
in her lap, and preparing to open the topmost one, "I think you'll like this, 
Tom. . . . Oh, if my family knew I was showing you. . . . They can't wait to 
get their hands on this!" 
 
She opened the lid. Harry edged forwar d a little to get a better view and 
saw what looked like a small golden c up with two finely wrought handles. 
 "I wonder whether you know what it is, Tom? Pick it up, have a good 
look!" whispered Hepzibah, and Voldem ort stretched out a long-fingered 
hand and lifted the cup by one handle out of its snug silken wrappings. Harry 
thought he saw a red gleam in his dark eyes. His greedy expression was 
curiously mirrored on Hepzibah’s face, except that her tiny eyes were fixed 
upon Voldemort's handsome features. 
 
"A badger," murmured Voldemort, examining the engraving upon the 
cup. "Then this was . . . ?" 
 
"Helga Hufflepuff's, as you very well know, you clever boy!" said 
Hepzibah, leaning forward with a loud creaking of corsets and actually pinching his hollow cheek. "Didn't I te ll you I was distantly descended? This 
has been handed down in the family fo r years and years. Lovely, isn't it? 
And all sorts of powers it's supposed to  possess too, but I haven't tested them 
thoroughly, I just keep it ni ce and safe in here. . . ." 
 
She hooked the cup back off Voldemor t's long forefinger and restored it 
gently to its box, too in tent upon settling it carefully back into position to 
notice the shadow that crossed Voldemor t's face as the cup was taken away. 
 
"Now then," said Hepzibah happily, "where’s Hokey? Oh yes, there you 
are — take that away now, Hokey." 
 
The elf obediently took the boxed cup, and Hepzibah turned her attention 
to the much flatter box in her lap. 
 "I think you'll like this even more, To m," she whispered. "Lean in a little, 
dear boy, so you can see. . . . Of cour se, Burke knows I've  got this one, I 
bought it from him, and I daresay he'd love to get it back when I'm gone. ..." 
 
She slid back the fine filigree clas p and flipped open the box. There upon 
the smooth crimson velvet lay a heavy golden locket. 
 
Voldemort reached out his hand, without invitation this time, and held it 
up to the light, staring at it. 
 
"Slytherin's mark," he said quietly, as the light played upon an ornate, 
serpentine S. 
 
"That's right!" said He pzibah, delighted, apparently, at the sight of 
Voldemort gazing at her locket, transfixed. "I had to pay an arm and a leg 
for it, but I couldn't let it pass, not a r eal treasure like that, had to have it for 
my collection. Burke bought it, appa rently, from a ragged-looking woman 
who seemed to have stolen it, but  had no idea of its true value —" 
 
There was no mistaking it this time: Vo ldemort's eyes flashed scarlet at 
the words, and Harry saw his knuckl es whiten on the locket's chain. 
 
"— I daresay Burke paid her a pittance but there you are. . . . Pretty, isn't 
it? And again, all kinds of powers attr ibuted to it, though I just keep it nice 
and safe. . . ." 
 She reached out to take the locket  back. For a moment, Harry thought 
Voldemort was not going to let go of it, but then it had slid through his 
fingers and was back in its red velvet cushion. 
 
“So there you are, Tom, clear, and I hope you enjoyed that!” 
 
She looked him full in the face and for the first time, Harry saw her 
foolish smile falter. 
 
"Are you all right, dear?" 
 
"Oh yes," said Voldemort quiet ly. "Yes, I'm very well. ..." 
 
“I thought — but a trick of the light, I suppose —" said Hepzibah, looking 
unnerved, and Harry guessed that she too had seen the momentary red gleam 
in Voldemort's eyes. "Here, Hokey, take  these away and lock them up again. 
... The usual enchantments...  
 
"Time to leave, Harry," said Dumble dore quietly, and as the in tie elf 
bobbed away bearing the boxes, Dumb ledore grasped Harry once again 
above the elbow and together they rose up through oblivion and back to Dumbledore's office. 
 
"Hepzibah Smith died two days after that little scene," said Dumbledore, 
resuming his seat and indicating that  Harry should do the same. "Hokey the 
house-elf was convicted by the Ministry of poisoning her mistress's evening 
cocoa by accident."  
"No way!" said Harry angrily. 
 
"I see we are of one mind," said Du mbledore. "Certainly , then are many 
similarities between this death and that of the Riddles. In both cases, 
somebody else took the blame, someone  who had a clear memory of having 
caused the death —" "Hokey confessed?" 
 
"She remembered putting something in  her mistress's cocoa that turned 
out not to be sugar, but a lethal and little-known poison, said Dumbledore. 
"It was concluded that she had not meant to do it, but being old and confused 
—" 
 
"Voldemort modified her memory, just like he did with Morfin!" "Yes, 
that is my conclusion too," said Dumb ledore. "And, just as with Morfin, the 
Ministry was predisposed  to suspect Hokey —" 
 
"— because she was a house-elf," said Harry. He had rare ly felt more in 
sympathy with the society Hermione had set up, S.P.E.W. "Precisely," said 
Dumbledore. "She was old, she admitted to having tampered with the drink, 
and nobody at the Ministry bothered to  inquire further. As in the case of 
Morfin, by the time I traced her and mana ged to extract this memory, her life 
was almost over — but her memory, of  course, proves nothing except that 
Voldemort knew of the existence of the cup and the locket. 
 
"By the time Hokey was c onvicted, Hepzibah's family had realized that 
two of her greatest treasures were missing.  It took them a while to be sure of this, for she had many hiding places, ha ving always guarded her collection 
most jealously. But before they were  sure beyond doubt that the cup and the 
locket were both gone, the assistant w ho had worked at Borgin and Burkes, 
the young man who had vis ited Hepzibah so regularly and charmed her so 
well, had resigned his post and vanished . His superiors had no idea where he 
had gone; they were as surprised as anyone at his disappearance. And that 
was the last that was seen or heard of Tom Riddle for a very long time. 
 
"Now," said Dumbledore, "if you don' t mind, Harry, I want to pause once 
more to draw your attention to certain  points of our story. Voldemort had 
committed another murder; whether it was his first since he killed the 
Riddles, I do not know, but I think it wa s. This time, as you will have seen, 
he killed not for revenge, but for gain. He wanted the two fabulous trophies 
that poor, besotted, old woman showed him. Just as he had once robbed the 
other children at his orphanage, just as he had stolen his Uncle Morfin’s 
ring, so he ran off now with  Hepzibahs cup and locket." 
 
"But," said Harry, frowning, "it s eems mad. . . . Risking everything, 
throwing away his job, just for those . . ." 
 
"Mad to you, perhaps, but not to Voldemort," said Dumbledore. "I hope 
you will understand in due course exac tly what those object s meant to him, 
Harry, but you must admit that it is not difficult to imagine that he saw the 
locket, at least, as rightfully his." "The locket maybe," said Harry, "but why 
take the cup as well?" 
 "It had belonged to anothe r of Hogwarts’s founders," said Dumbledore. "I 
think he still felt a great pull toward the school and that he could not resist 
an object so steeped in Hogwarts history. There were other reasons, I think. 
... I hope to be able to demonstrate them to you in due course. 
 
"And now for the very last recollection I have to show you, at least until 
you manage to retrieve Professor Sl ughorn's memory for us. Ten years 
separates Hokey’s memory a nd this one, ten years du ring which we can only 
guess at what Lord Voldemort was doing.  . . ." Harry got to his feet once 
more as Dumbledore emptied the la st memory into the Pensieve. 
 
"Whose memory is it?" he aske d. "Mine," said Dumbledore. 
 
And Harry dived after Dumbledore th rough the shifting silver mass, 
landing in the very office he had just  left. There was Fawkes slumbering 
happily on his perch, and there be hind the desk was Dumbledore, who 
looked very similar to the Dumbledore standing beside Harry, though both 
hands were whole and u ndamaged and his face was,  perhaps, a little less 
lined. The one difference between the present-day office and this one was 
that it was snowing in the past; bluish flecks were drifting past the window in the dark and building up on the outside ledge. 
 
The younger Dumbledore seemed to be  waiting for something, and sure 
enough, moments after their arrival, there was a knock on the door and he 
said, "Enter." 
 Harry let out a hastily stifled gasp. Voldemort had entered the room. His 
features were not those Harry had seen  emerge from the great stone cauldron 
almost two years ago: They were not as snake-like, the eyes were not yet 
scarlet, the face not yet masklike, and yet he was no longer handsome Tom 
Riddle. It was as though his features ha d been burned and blurred; they were 
waxy and oddly distorted, and the whites of the eyes now had a permanently 
bloody look, though the pup ils were not yet the slits that Harry knew they 
would become. He was wearing a long black  cloak, and his face was as pale 
as the snow glistening on his shoulders. 
 
The Dumbledore behind the desk show ed no sign of surprise. Evidently 
this visit had been made by appointment. 
 
"Good evening, Tom," said Dumbledore easily. "Won't you sit down?" 
 
"Thank you," said Voldemort, and he took the seat to which Dumbledore 
had gestured — the very seat, by the look s of it, that Harry had just vacated 
in the present. "I heard that you had become headmaster," he said, and his 
voice was slightly higher and colder than it had been. "A worthy choice." 
 
"I am glad you approve," said Dumb ledore, smiling. "May I offer you a 
drink?" 
 
"That would be welcome, " said Voldemort. "I have come a long way." 
 
Dumbledore stood and swept over to th e cabinet where he now kept the 
Pensieve, but which then was full of  bottles. Having handed Voldemort a goblet of wine and poured one for himself,  he returned to the seat behind his 
desk. . "So, Tom ... to wh at do I owe the pleasure?" 
 
Voldemort did not answer at once, but merely sipped his wine. 
 
"They do not call me 'Tom' anymore," he said. "These days, 1 am known 
as —" 
 
"I know what you are known as," said  Dumbledore, smiling, pleasantly. 
"But to me, I'm afraid, you will always be Tom Riddle. It is one of the 
irritating things about old teachers. I am  afraid that they never quite forget 
their charges' youthful beginnings." 
 
He raised his glass as though toasti ng Voldemort, whose face remained 
expressionless. Neverthele ss, Harry felt the atmosphe re in the room change 
subtly: Dumbledore's refusal to use Vo ldemort’s chosen name was a refusal 
to allow Voldemort to dictate the terms of the meeting, and Harry could tell 
that Voldemort took it as such. 
 
"I am surprised you have remained he re so long," said Voldemort after a 
short pause. "I always wondered w hy a wizard such as  yourself never 
wished to leave school." 
 
"Well," said Dumbledore, still smiling, "to a wizard such as myself, there 
can be nothing more important than pa ssing on ancient skills, helping hone 
young minds. If I remember correctly , you once saw the attraction of 
teaching too."  
"I see it still," said Voldemort. "I  merely wondered why you — who are 
so often asked for advice by the Ministry , and who have twi ce, I think, been 
offered the post of Minister —" 
 
"Three times at the last count, act ually," said Dumbledore. "But the 
Ministry never attracted me as a car eer. Again, something we have in 
common, I think." 
 
Voldemort inclined his head, unsmili ng, and took another sip of wine. 
Dumbledore did not break the silence th at stretched between them now, but 
waited, with a look of pleasant expect ancy, for Voldemort to talk first. 
 
"I have returned," he said, after a little while, "later, perhaps, than 
Professor Dippet expected . . . but I have  returned, nevertheless, to request 
again what he once told me I was too young to have. I have come to you to 
ask that you permit me to return to th is castle, to teach. I think you must 
know that I have seen and done much since I left this place. I could show 
and tell your students things they can gain from no other wizard." 
 
Dumbledore considered Voldemort over the top of his own goblet for a 
while before speaking. 
 
"Yes, I certainly do know that you ha ve seen and done much since leaving 
us," he said quietly. "Rumors of your  doings have reached your old school, 
Tom. I should be sorry to believe half of them." 
 Voldemort's expression remained im passive as he said, "Greatness 
inspires envy, envy engenders spite, spite spawns lies. Y ou must know this, 
Dumbledore." 
 
"You call it 'greatness,' what you ha ve been doing, do you?" asked 
Dumbledore delicately. 
 
"Certainly," said Voldemort, and his eyes seemed to burn red. "I have 
experimented; I have pushed the boundaries  of magic further, perhaps, than 
they have ever been pushed —" 
 
"Of some kinds of magic," Dumbledore corrected him quietly. "Of some. 
Of others, you remain . . . forgiv e me . . . woefully ignorant." 
 
For the first time, Voldemort smiled. It was a taut leer, an evil thing, more 
threatening than a look of rage. 
 
"The old argument," he said softly. "B ut nothing I have seen in the world 
has supported your famous pronouncements  that love is more powerful than 
my kind of magic, Dumbledore." 
 
"Perhaps you have been looking in the wrong places," suggested 
Dumbledore. 
  
 
"Well, then, what better place to start my fresh researches than here, at 
Hogwarts?" said Voldemort. "Will you let me return? Will you let me share my knowledge with your students? I pl ace myself and my talents at your 
disposal. I am yours to command." 
 
Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. "And what will become of those whom 
you command? What will happen to thos e who call themselves — or so 
rumor has it — the Death Eaters?" 
 
Harry could tell that Voldemort had not expected Dumb ledore to know 
this name; he saw Voldemort’s eyes flash red again and the slitlike nostrils 
flare. 
 
"My friends," he said, after a moment's  pause, "will carry on without me, I 
am sure." 
 
"I am glad to hear that you consider  them friends," said Dumbledore. "I 
was under the impression that they are more in the order of servants." 
 
"You are mistaken," said Voldemort. 
 
"Then if I were to go to the Hog's Head tonight, I would not find a group 
of them — Nott, Rosier, Muldber, Dolohov — awaiting your return? 
Devoted friends indeed, to travel this  far with you on a snowy night, merely 
to wish you luck as you attempted to secure a teaching post." 
 
There could be no doubt that Dumble dore's detailed knowledge of those 
with whom he was traveling was even  less welcome to Voldemort; however, 
he rallied almost at once.  
"You are omniscient as ever, Dumbledore." 
 
"Oh no, merely friendly with the local barmen," said Dumbledore lightly. 
"Now, Tom . . ." 
 
Dumbledore set down his empty glass and drew himself up in his seat, the 
tips of his fingers together in a very characteristic gesture. 
 
"Let us speak openly. Why have you come here tonigh t, surrounded by 
henchmen, to request a job we  both know you do not want?" 
 
Voldemort looked coldly surprised. "A job I do not want? On the 
contrary, Dumbledore, I want it very much." 
 
"Oh, you want to come back to Hogwarts, but you do not want to teach 
any more than you wanted to when yo u were eighteen. What is it you're 
after, Tom? Why not try an open request for once?" 
 
Voldemort sneered. "If you do not want to give me a job —" 
 
"Of course I don't," said Dumbledore.  "And I don't think for a moment 
you expected me to. Nevertheless, you came here, you asked, you must have 
had a purpose." 
 
Voldemort stood up. He looked le ss like Tom Riddle than ever, his 
features thick with rage. "This is your final word?"  
"It is," said Dumbledore, also standing. 
 
"Then we have nothing more to say to each other." 
 
"No, nothing," said Dumbledore, and a great sadness filled his face. "The 
time is long gone when I could frighten you with a burning wardrobe and 
force you to make repayment for your cr imes. But I wish I could, Tom. ... I 
wish I could. . . ." 
 
For a second, Harry was on the verge of shouting a pointless warning: He 
was sure that Voldemort's hand had twitched toward his pocket and his 
wand; but then the moment had passe d, Voldemort had turned away, the 
door was closing, and he was gone. 
 
Harry felt Dumbledore's hand close over his arm again and moments later, 
they were standing together on almost  the same spot, but there was no snow 
building on the window ledge, and Du mbledore's hand was blackened and 
dead-looking once more. 
 
"Why?" said Harry at once, looking up into Dumbledore's face. "Why did 
he come back? Did you ever find out?" 
 
"I have ideas," said Dumbledor e, "but no more than that." 
 
"What ideas, sir?" 
 "I shall tell you, Harry, when you have retrieved that memory from 
Professor Slughorn," said Dumbledore. 
 
"When you have that last piece of the jigsaw, everything will, I hope, be 
clear ... to both of us." 
 
Harry was still burning with curios ity and even though Dumbledore had 
walked to the door and was holding it open  for him, he did not move at once. 
 
"Was he after the Defense Against the Dark Arts job again, sir? He didn't 
say. ..." 
 
"Oh, he definitely want ed the Defense Against the Dark Arts job," said 
Dumbledore. "The aftermath of our little  meeting proved that. You see, we 
have never been able to keep a Defe nse Against the Dark Arts teacher for 
longer than a year since I refused the post to Lord Voldemort." 
CHAPTER 21 
 
Harry wracked his brains over the next week as to how he was to persuade 
Slughorn to hand over the true memory, but nothing in the nature of a brain 
wave occurred and he was reduced to doing what he did increasingly these 
days when at a loss: poring over hi s Potions book, hoping that the Prince 
would have scribbled something useful in a margin, as he had done so many 
times before. 
 
"You won't find anything in there," said  Hermione firmly, late on Sunday 
evening. 
 
"Don't start, Hermione," said Harry. " If it hadn't been for the Prince, Ron 
wouldn't be sitting here now." 
 
"He would if you'd just listened to Snape in our first year," said Hermione 
dismissively. 
 
Harry ignored her. He had just found an incantation “Sectum-sempra!" 
scrawled in a margin above the intr iguing words "For enemies," and was 
itching to try it out, but thought it best not to in front of Hermione. Instead, 
he surreptitiously folded down the corn er of the page. They were sitting 
beside the fire in the common ro om; the only other people awake were 
fellow sixth years. There had been a ce r-tain amount of excitement earlier 
when they had come back from dinner to find a new sign on the notice board 
that announced the date for their Apparition Test. Those who would be 
seventeen on or before the first test date, the twenty-first of April, had the option of signing up for additional prac tice sessions, which would take place 
(heavily supervised) in Hogsmeade. 
 
Ron had panicked on reading this no tice; he had still not man-aged to 
Apparate and feared he would not be ready for th e test. Hermione, who had 
now achieved Apparition twice, was a little more confident, but Harry, who 
would not be seventeen for an-other fo ur months, could not take the test 
whether ready or not. 
 
"At least you can Apparate, though!" sa id Ron tensely. "You'll have no 
trouble come July!" 
 
"I've only done it once," Harry reminded him; he had finally managed to 
disappear and rematerialize inside hi s hoop during their previous lesson. 
 
Having wasted a lot of time worryin g aloud about Apparition, Ron was 
now struggling to finish a viciously di fficult essay for Snape that Harry and 
Hermione had already comp leted. Harry fully expect ed to receive low marks 
on his, because he had di sagreed with Snape on th e best way to tackle 
dementors, but he did not care: Slug horns memory was the most important 
thing to him now. 
 
"I'm telling you, the stupid Prince isn't going to be able to help you with 
this, Harry!" said Hermione, more l oudly. "There's only one way to force 
someone to do what you want, and that's the Imperius Curse, which is illegal 
—" 
 "Yeah, I know that, thanks," said  Harry, not looking up from the book. 
"That's why I'm looking for someth ing different. Dumbledorf says 
Veritaserum won't do it, but there might be something else, a potion or a 
spell. . . ." 
 
"You're going about it the wrong way, " said Hermione. "Only you can get 
the memory, Dumbledore says. That mu st mean you can persuade Slughorn 
where other people can’t. It's not a que stion of slipping him a potion, anyone 
could do that —" 
 
"How do you spell 'belligerent'?" said Ron, shaking his quill very hard 
while staring at his parchment.  "It can't be B — U — M —" 
 
"No, it isn't," said Hermione, pu lling Ron's essay to ward her. "And 
'augury' doesn't begin O — R — G either. What kind of quill are you using?" 
 
"It's one of Fred and George's Spe ll-Check ones, but I think the charm 
must be wearing off." 
 
"Yes, it must," said Hermione, pointin g at the title of his essay, "because 
we were asked how we'd deal with dementors, not 'Dug-bogs', and I don't 
remember you changing your name to 'Roonil Wazlib’ either." 
 
"Ah no!" said Ron, staring horror-str uck at the parchment. "Don't say I'll 
have to write the whole thing out again!" 
 "It's okay, we can fix it, " said Hermione, pulling th e essay toward her and 
taking out her wand. 
 
"I love you, Hermione," said Ron, sinking back in his chair, rub-bing his 
eyes wearily. Hermione turned faintly  pink, but merely said, "Don't let 
Lavender hear you saying that." 
 
"1 won't," said Ron into his hands. "Or maybe I will, then she'll ditch me." 
 
"Why don't you ditch her if you want to finish it?" asked Harry. 
 
"You haven't ever chucked anyone, ha ve you?" said Ron. "You and Cho 
just —" 
 
"Sort of fell apart, yeah," said Harry. 
 
"Wish that would happen with me and Lavender," said Ron gloomily, 
watching Hermione silently  tapping each of his mis-spelled words with the 
end of her wand, so that they correct ed themselves on the page. "But the 
more I hint I want to finish it, the tighter she holds on. It's like going out 
with the giant squid." 
 
"There," said Hermione, some twenty  minutes later, handing back Ron's 
essay. 
 
"Thanks a million," said Ron. " Can I borrow your quill for the 
conclusion?" Harry, who had found nothing useful in the Half-Blood Prince's notes so far, looked around; the three of them were now the only 
ones left in the common room, Seamus having just gone up to bed cursing 
Snape and his essay. The only sounds were the crackling of the fire and Ron scratching out one last paragraph on dementors using Hermione's quill. 
Harry had just closed the Half-B lood Prince's book, yawning, when — 
 
Crack! 
 
Hermione let out a little shriek; R on spilled ink all over his freshly 
completed essay, and Harry said, "Kreacher!" 
 
The house-elf bowed low and addresse d his own gnarled toes. "Master 
said he wanted regular reports on wh at the Malfoy boy is doing, so Kreacher 
has come to give--" 
 
Crack! 
 
Dobby appeared alongside Kreacher, hi s tea-cozy hat askew. "Dobby has 
been helping too, Harry Potter!" he squeaked, cast-ing Kreacher a resentful 
look. "And Kreacher ought to tell Dobby when he is coming to see Harry 
Potter so they can make their re-ports together!" 
 
"What is this?" asked Hermione, still looking shocked by these sudden 
appearances. "What's going on, Harry?" Harry hesitated before answering, 
because he had not told Her-mione a bout setting Kreacher and Dobby to tail 
Malfoy; house-elves were always su ch a touchy subject with her. 
 "Well. . . they've been followi ng Malfoy for me," he said. 
 
"Night and day," croaked Kreacher. 
 
"Dobby has not slept for a week, Ha rry Potter!" said Dobby proudly, 
swaying where he stood. Hermione looked indignant. 
 
"You haven't slept, Dobby? But surely , Harry, you didn't tell him not to 
—" 
 
"No, of course I didn't," said Ha rry quickly. "Dobby, you can sleep, all 
right? But has either of you found out anything?" he has-tened to ask, before 
Hermione could intervene again. 
 
"Master Malfoy moves with a nobility th at befits his pure blood," croaked 
Kreacher at once. "His features recall the fine bones of my mistress and his 
manners are those of—" 
 
"Draco Malfoy is a bad boy!" squeaked Dobby angrily. "A bad boy who 
— who —" He shuddered from the tassel of his tea cozy to the toes of his 
socks and then ran at the fire, as though about to dive into it. Harry, to whom 
this was not entirely unexpected, caught  him around the middle and held him 
fast. For a few seconds Dobby st ruggled, then went limp. 
 
"Thank you, Harry Potter," he panted . "Dobby still finds it dif-ficult to 
speak ill of his old masters." Harry rel eased him; Dobby straightened his tea cozy and said defiantly to Kreacher, "But Kreacher shoul d know that Draco 
Malfoy is not a good master to a house-elf!" 
 
"Yeah, we don't need to hear about y ou being in love with Malfoy," Harry 
told Kreacher. "Let's fast forward to where he's actually been going." 
 
Kreacher bowed again, looking furi ous, and then said, "Master Malfoy 
eats in the Great Hall, he sleeps in a dormitory in the dun-geons, he attends 
his classes in a variety of—" 
 
"Dobby, you tell me," said Harry, cutting across Kreacher. "Has he been 
going anywhere he  shouldn't have?" 
 
"Harry Potter, sir," squeaked Dobby, hi s great orblike eyes shining in the 
firelight, "the Malfoy boy is breaking no rules that Dobby can discover, but 
he is still keen to avoid detection. He  has been making regular visits to the 
seventh floor with a variety of other students, who keep watch for him while 
he enters —" 
 
"The Room of Requireme nt!" said Harry, smacking himself hard on the 
forehead with Advanced Potion-Making.  Hermione and Ron stared at him. 
"That's where he's been sneaking off to ! That's where he's doing… whatever 
he's doing! And I bet that's why he's been disappearing off the map — come 
to think of it, I've never seen the Room of Requirement on there!" 
 
"Maybe the Marauders never knew th e room was ther e," said Ron. 
 "I think it'll be part of the magic of  the room," said Hermione. "If you 
need it to be unplottable, it will be." 
 
"Dobby, have you mana ged to get in to have a look at what Malfoy's 
doing?" said Harry eagerly. 
 
"No, Harry Potter, that is  impossible," said Dobby. 
 
"No, it's not," said Harry at once. "Malfoy got into our head-quarters there 
last year, so I'll be able to get in and spy on him, no problem." 
 
"But I don't think you will, Harry," said Hermione slowly. "Mal-foy 
already knew exactly how we were using the room, didn't he, because that 
stupid Marietta had blabbed. He needed the room to become the 
headquarters of the D.A., so it did. But you don't know what the room 
becomes when Malfoy goes in there, so  you don't know what to ask it to 
transform into." 
 
"There'll be a way around that," sa id Harry dismissively. "You've done 
brilliantly, Dobby." 
 
"Kreachers done well too," said Hermi one kindly; but far from looking 
grateful, Kreacher averted his huge , bloodshot eyes and croaked at the 
ceiling, "The Mudblood is speaking to Kreacher, Kreacher will pretend he 
cannot hear —" 
 "Get out of it," Harry snapped at hi m, and Kreacher made one last deep 
bow and Disapparated. "Y ou'd better go and get some  sleep too, Dobby." 
 
"Thank you, Harry Potter, sir!" squ eaked Dobby happily, and he too 
vanished. 
 
"How good is this?" said Harry enthusiastically, turning to Ron and 
Hermione the moment the room was elf-free again. "We know where 
Malfoy's going! We've got him cornered now!" 
 
"Yeah, it's great," said Ron glum ly, who was attempting to mop up the 
sodden mass of ink chat had recently b een an almost com-pleted essay. 
Hermione pulled it toward her and be gan siphoning the ink off with her 
wand. 
 
"But what's all this about him going up  there with a variety of students'?" 
said Hermione. "How ma ny people are in on it? You wouldn't think he'd 
trust lots of them to know what he's do-ing---" 
 
"Yeah, that is weird," said Harry, fro wning. "I heard him telling Crabbe it 
wasn't Crabbe's business what he was doing... so what's he telling all these... all these..." Harry's voice tailed away; he  was staring at the fire. "God, I've 
been stupid," he said quietly. "Its obviou s, isn't it? There was a great vat of it 
down in the dungeon. . . . He could’ve nicked some any time during that 
lesson. . . ." 
 
"Nicked what?" said Ron.  
"Polyjuice Potion. He stole some of the Polyjuice Potion Slug-horn 
showed us in our first Potions lesson… There aren't a whole variety of 
students standing guard for Malfoy… it's just Crabbe and Goyle as usual. 
…Yeah, it all fits!" said Harry, jumpi ng up and starting to pace in front of 
the fire. "They're stupid e nough to do what they're told even if he won't tell 
them what he's up to, but he doesn't want them to be seen lurking around outside the Room of Requirement, so he 's got them taking Polyjuice to make 
them look like other people… Those tw o girls I saw him with when he 
missed Quidditch — ha! Crabbe and Goyle!" 
 
“Do you mean to say," said Hermione  in a hushed voice, "that that little 
girl whose scales I repaired — ?" 
 
"Yeah, of course!" said Harry loudly,  staring at her. "Of course! Malfoy 
must've been inside the room at the tim e, so she — what am I talking about? 
— he dropped the scales to tell Malfoy not to corne out, because there was 
someone there! And there was that gi rl who dropped the toadspawn too! 
We've been walking past him a ll the time and not realizing it!" 
 
"He's got Crabbe and Goyle transf orming into girls?" guffawed Ron. 
"Blimey… no wonder they don't look to o happy these days. I'm surprised 
they don't tell him to stuff it." 
 
"Well, they wouldn't, would they, if he's shown them his Dark Mark?" 
said Harry. 
 "Hmmm... the Dark Mark we don't know exists," said Hermi-one 
skeptically, rolling up Ron's dried essa y before it could come to any more 
harm and handing it to him. 
 
"We'll see” said Harry confidently. 
 
"Yes, we will," Hermione said, getting to her feet and stretching. "But, 
Harry, before you get all excited, I stil l don't think you'll be able to get into 
the Room of Requirement without knowing what's there first'. And I don't 
think you should forget" — she heaved he r bag onto her shoulder and gave 
him a very serious look — "that what you're supposed to be concentrating on 
is getting that memory from Slughorn. Good night." 
 
Harry watched her go, fee ling slightly disgruntled. Once the door to the 
girls' dormitories had closed behi nd her he rounded on Ron. "What d'you 
think?" 
 
"Wish I could Disapparate like a house-el f," said Ron, staring at the spot 
where Dobby had vanished. "I'd have that Apparition Test in the bag." 
 
Harry did not sleep well that night. He  lay awake for what felt like hours, 
wondering how Malfoy was using the Room of Requirement and what he, Harry, would see when he went in there the following day, for whatever 
Hermione said, Harry was sure that if  Malfoy had-=- been able to see the 
headquarters of the D.A., he would be able  to see Malfoy's, what could it be? 
A meeting place? A hideout? A ston room? A workshop? Harrys mind 
worked feverishly and his dreams, when  he finally fell asleep, were broken and disturbed by images of Malfoy, wh o turned into Slughorn, who turned 
into Snape… 
 
Harry was in a state of great antic ipation over breakfast the following 
morning; he had a free period before De fense Against the Dark Arts and was 
determined to spend it trying to get into the Room of Requirement. 
Hermione was rather ostentatiously showing no interest in his whispered 
plans for forcing entry into the room , which irritated Harry, because he 
thought she might be a lot of help if she wanted to. 
 
"Look," he said quietly, leaning forw ard and putting a hand on the Daily 
Prophet, which she had just removed from a post owl, to stop her from 
opening it and vanishing behind it. "I ha ven't for-gotten about Slughorn, but 
I haven't got a clue how to get that me mory off him, and until I get a brain 
wave why shouldn't I find out what Malfoy's doing?" 
 
"I've already told you, you need to  persuade Slughorn," said Her-mione. 
"It's not a question of tricking him or  bewitching him, or Dumbledore could 
have done it in a second. Instead of messing around outside the Room of 
Requirement" — she jerked the Proph et out from under Harrys hand and 
unfolded it to look at the front pa ge — "you should go and find Slughorn 
and start appeal-ing to his better nature." 
 
"Anyone we know — ?" asked Ron, as  Hermione scanned the headlines. 
 
"Yes!" said Hermione, causing bot h Harry and Ron to gag on their 
breakfast. "But it's all right, he's not dead — its Mundungus, he's been arrested and sent to Azkaban! Some thing to do with impersonating an 
Inferius during an attempted burglary,  and someone called Octavius Pepper 
has vanished. Oh, and how horrible, a nine-year-old boy has been arrested 
for trying to kill his grandparents, they think he was under the Imperius 
Curse." 
 
They finished their breakfast in sile nce. Hermione set off imme-diately 
for Ancient Runes; Ron for the common  room, where he still had to finish 
his conclusion on Snape's dementor essa y, and Harry for the corridor on the 
seventh floor and the stretch of wall opposite the tapestry of Barnabas the 
Barmy teaching trolls to do ballet. 
 
Harry slipped on his Invisibility Cloak once he had found an empty 
passage, but he need not ha ve bothered. When he re ached his destination he 
found it deserted. Harry was not sure whether his chances of getting inside 
the room were better with Malfoy in-s ide it or out, but at least his first 
attempt was not going to be complicated by the presence of Crabbe or Goyle 
pretending to be an eleven-year-old girl. 
 
He closed his eyes as he appro ached the place where the Room of 
Requirement's door was concealed. He knew what he had to do; he had 
become most accomplished at it last y ear. Concentrating with all his might 
he thought, “I need to see what Malfoy' s doing in here... I need to see what 
Malfoy's doing in here... I need to see what Malfoy's doing in here...” 
 
Three times he walked past th e door; then, his heart pounding with 
excitement, he opened his eyes and fa ced it — but he was still looking at a stretch of mundanely bl ank wall. He moved fo rward and gave it an 
experimental push. The stone remained solid and unyielding. 
 
"Okay," said Harry aloud. "Okay... I thought the wrong thing..." He 
pondered for a moment then set off again, eyes closed, con-centrating as 
hard as he could. “I need to see the place where Malfoy keeps coming 
secretly... I need to see the place where Malfoy keeps coming secretly...” After three walks past, he ope ned his eyes expectantly. 
 
There was no door. 
 
"Oh, come off it," he told the wall i rritably. "That was a clear instruction. 
Fine." He thought hard fo r several minutes before st riding off once more. “I 
need you to become the place y ou become for Draco Malfoy...” 
 
He did not immediately open his eyes wh en he had finished his patrolling; 
he was listening hard, as though he might hear the door pop into existence. 
He heard nothing, however, except the di stant twittering of birds outside. He 
opened his eyes. 
 
There was still no door. 
 
Harry swore. Someone screamed. He looked around to see a gaggle of 
first years running back around the corner, apparently un-der the impression that they had just encountered a particularly foulmouthed ghost. 
 Harry tried every variation of "I n eed to see what Dr aco Malfoy is doing 
inside you" that he could think of fo r a whole hour, at the end of which he 
was forced to concede that Hermione might have had a point: The room 
simply did not want to open for him. Frus-trated and annoyed, he set off for 
Defense Against the Dark Arts, pulling off his Invisibility Cloak and stuffing it into his bag as he went. 
 
"Late again, Potter," said Snape coldly, as Harry hurried into the candlelit 
classroom. "Ten points from Gryfrindor ." Harry scowled at Snape as he 
flung himself into the seat beside Ron. Half the class were still on their feet, 
taking out books and orga-nizing their th ings; he could not  be much later 
than any of them. 
 
"Before we start, I want your dementor essays," said Snape, wav-ing his 
wand carelessly, so that twenty-five scro lls of parchment soared into the air 
and landed in a neat pile on his desk . "And I hope for your sakes they are 
better than the tripe I had to endure on resisting the Imperius Curse. Now, if 
you will all open your books to page — what is it, Mr. Finnigan?" 
 
"Sir," said Seamus, "I've been wonde ring, how do you tell the difference 
between an Inferius and a ghost? Becau se there was something in the paper 
about an Inferius —" 
 
"No, there wasn't," said  Snape in a bored voice. 
 
"But sir, I heard people talking —" 
 "If you had actually read the article in question, Mr. Finnigan, you would 
have known that the so-called Inferius  was nothing but a smelly sneak thief 
by the name of Mundungus Fletcher." 
 
"I thought Snape and Mundungus were  on the same side," mut-tered 
Harry to Ron and Hermi one. "Shouldn't he be upse t Mun-dungus has been 
arrest —" 
 
"But Potter seems to have a lot to say on the subject," said Snape, pointing 
suddenly at the back of the room, his black eyes fixed on Harry. "Let us ask 
Potter how we would tell the differenc e between an Inferius and a ghost." 
 
The whole class looked around at Harry, who hastily tried to recall what 
Dumbledore had told him the night that  they had gone to visit Slughorn. "Er 
— well — ghosts are transparent —" he said. 
 
"Oh, very good," interrupted Snape, his lip curling. "Yes, it in easy to see 
that nearly six years of magical edu cation have not been wasted on you, 
Potter. 'Ghosts are transparent."' 
 
Pansy Parkinson let out a high-pitched giggle. Several other peo-ple were 
smirking. Harry took a deep breath a nd continued calmly, though his insides 
were boiling, "Yeah, ghosts are transparen t, but Inferi are dead bodies, aren't 
they? So they'd be solid —" 
 
"A five-year-old could have told us  as much," sneer ed Snape. "The 
Inferius is a corpse that has been reanimated by a Dark  wiz-ard's spells. It is not alive, it is merely used like a puppet to do the wizard's bidding. A ghost, 
as I trust that you are all aware by now, is  the imprint of a departed soul left 
upon the earth, and of course, as Potter so wisely tells us, transparent. " 
 
"Well, what Harry said is the most useful if we're trying to tell them 
apart!" said Ron. "When we come face -to-face with one down a dark alley, 
we're going to be having a look to see if its solid, aren't we, we're not going 
to be asking, 'Excuse me, are you the imprint of a departed soul?'" There was 
a ripple of laughter, instantly quelled by the look Snape gave the class. 
 
"Another ten points from Gryffindor," said Snape. "I would ex-pect 
nothing more sophisticated from you, Rona ld Weasley, the boy so solid he 
cannot Apparate half an inch across a room." 
 
"No!" whispered Hermione, grabbing Harrys arm as he opened his mouth 
furiously. "There's no point, you'll just  end up in deten-tion again, leave it!" 
 
"Now open your books to page two hundr ed and thirteen," said Snape, 
smirking a little, "and read the first two paragraphs on the Cruciatus Curse." 
 
Ron was very subdued all through the class. When the bell sounded at the 
end of the lesson, Lave nder caught up with R on and Harry (Hermione 
mysteriously melted out of sight as sh e ap-proached) and abused Snape hotly 
for his jibe about Ron's Appa ri-tion, but this seemed to merely irritate Ron, 
and he shook her off by making a detour into the boys' bathroom with Harry. 
 "Snape's right, though, isn't he?" said Ron, after staring into a cracked 
mirror for a minute or two. "I dunno whether it's worth me taking the test. I 
just can't get the hang of Apparition." 
 
"You might as well do the extra prac tice sessions in Hogsmeade and see 
where they get you," said Harry reasona bly. "It'll be more interesting than 
trying to get into a stupid hoop anyw ay. Then, if you're still not — you know 
— as good as you'd like to be, you can po stpone the test, do it with me over 
the summer — Myrtle, this is the boys' bathroom!" 
 
The ghost of a girl had risen out of the toilet in a cubicle behind them and 
was now floating in midair, staring at  them through thick, white, round 
glasses. "Oh," she said glumly. "It's you two." 
 
"Who were you expecting?" said Ron, looking at her in the mirror. 
 
"Nobody," said Myrtle, picking moodily at a spot on her chin. "He said 
he'd come back and see me, but then you said you'd pop in and visit me too" 
— she gave Harry a reproachful look — "and I haven't seen you for months 
and months. I've learned not to ex-pect too much from boys." 
 
"I thought you lived in that girls' bathroom?" said Harry, who had been 
careful to give the place a wi de berth for some years now. 
 
"I do," she said, with a sulky little shru g, "but that doesn't mean I cant 
visit other places. I came and saw you in your bath once, remember?" 
 "Vividly," said Harry. 
 
"But I thought he liked me," she said plaintively. "Maybe if you two left, 
he'd come back again. We had lots  in common. I'm sure he felt it." 
 
And she looked hopefully toward the door. "When you say you had lots in 
common," said Ron, sounding rather am used now, "d'you mean he lives in 
an S-bend too?" 
 
"No," said Myrtle defiantly, her voi ce echoing loudly around the old tiled 
bathroom. "I mean he's se nsitive, people bully him too, and he feels lonely 
and hasn't got anybody to talk to, and he 's not afraid to show his feelings and 
cry!" 
 
"There's been a boy in here crying?" said Harry curiously. "A young 
boy?" 
 
"Never you mind!" said Myrtle, her sm all, leaky eyes fixed on Ron, who 
was now definitely grinning. "I promis ed I wouldn't tell a nyone, and I'll take 
his secret to the —" 
 
"— not the grave, surely?" said Ron with a snort. "The sewers, maybe." 
Myrtle gave a howl of rage  and dived back into the toilet, caus-ing water to 
slop over the sides and onto the floor. Goading Myrtle seemed to have put 
fresh heart into Ron. "You're right,"  he said, swinging his schoolbag back 
over his shoulder, "I'll do the practice sessions in Hogsmeade before I 
de-cide about taking the test."  
And so the following weekend, Ron jo ined Hermione and the rest of the 
sixth years who would turn seventeen in time to take the test in a fortnight. 
Harry felt rather jealous watching them all get ready to go into the village; 
he missed making trips there, and it was a particularly fine spring day, one 
of the first clear skies they had seen in a long time. Howeve r, he had decided 
to use the time to attempt another assault on the Room of Requirement. 
 
"You'd do better," said Hermione, when he confided this plan to Ron and 
her in the entrance hall, "to go straight  to Slughorn's of-fice and try and get 
that memory from him." 
 
"I've been trying!" said Harry crossl y, which was perfectly true. He had 
lagged behind after every Potions lesson th at week in an at-tempt to corner 
Slughorn, but the Potions master always  left the dungeon so fast that Harry 
had not been able to catch him. Tw ice, Harry had gone to his office and 
knocked, but received no re ply, though on the second occasion he was sure 
he had heard the quickly stifled sounds of an old gramophone. 
 
"He doesn't want to talk to me, Herm ione! He can tell I've been trying to 
get him on his own again, and he 's not going to let it happen!” 
 
"Well, you've just got to keep at it, haven't you?" 
 
The short queue of people waiting to f ile past Filch, who was do-ing his 
usual prodding act with the Secrecy Sensor, moved forward a few steps and Harry did not answer in case he was overheard by the caretaker. He wished Ron and Hermione both luck , then turned and climbed the marble staircase 
again, determined, whatever Her-mione sa id, to devote an hour or two to the 
Room of Requirement. 
 
Once out of sight of the entrance ha ll, Harry pulled the Ma-rauder's Map 
and his Invisibility Cloak from his bag. Having concealed himself, he tapped 
the map, murmured, "I solemnly sw ear that I am up to no good," and 
scanned it carefully. 
 
As it was Sunday morning, nearly a ll the students were inside their 
various common rooms, the Gryffindors  in one tower, the Ravenclaws in 
another, the Slytherins in the dungeons , and the Hufflepuffs in the basement 
near the kitchens. Here and there a stray person meandered around the 
library or up a corridor. There were a few people out in the grounds, and 
there, alone in the seventh-floor corri dor, was Gregory G oyle. There was no 
sign of the Room of Requirement, but Harry was not worried about that; if 
Goyle was standing guard outside it, the room was open, whether the map 
was aware of it or not. He therefore sprinted up the stairs, slowing down 
only when he reached the corner into the corridor, when he began to creep, 
very slowly, toward the very same little girl, clutching her heavy brass 
scales, that Hermione had so kindly helped a fortnight before. He waited 
until he was right be-hind her before bending very low and whispering, 
"Hello…you're very pretty, aren't you?" 
 
Goyle gave a high-pitched scream of terror, threw the scales up into the 
air, and sprinted away, vanishing from sight long before the sound of the scales smashing had stopped echoing around the corri-dor. Laughing, Harry turned to contemplate the blank wall behind which, he was sure, Draco 
Malfoy was now standing frozen, awar e that someone unwelcome was out 
there, but not daring to make an appearance. It ga ve Harry a most agreeable 
feeling of power as he tried to rememb er what form of words he had not yet 
tried. 
 
Yet this hopeful mood did not last long . Half an hour later, hav-ing tried 
many more variations of his request to see what Malfoy was up to, the wall 
was just as doorless as ever. Harry  felt frustrated beyond belief-=Malfoy 
might be just feet away from him, and there was still not the tiniest shred of 
evidence as to what he was doing in there. Losing his patience completely, 
Harry ran at the wall and kicked it. 
 
"OUCH!" 
 
He thought he might have broken his toe; as he clutched it and hopped on 
one foot, the Invisibility Cloak slipped off him. 
 
"Harry?" 
 
He spun around, one-legged, and toppl ed over. There, to his utter 
astonishment, was Tonks, walking toward him as though she frequently 
strolled up this corridor. 
 
"What’re you doing here?" he said, scrambling to his feet again; why did 
she always have to find him lying on the floor? 
 "I came to see Dumbledore," said  Tonks. Harry thought she looked 
terrible: thinner than usual, her mouse-colored hair lank. 
 
"His office isn't here," said Harry, " it's round the other side of the castle, 
behind the gargoyle —" 
 
"I know," said Tonks. "He's not there.  Apparently he's gone away again." 
 
"Has he?" said Harry, putting his bruise d foot gingerly back on the floor. 
"Hey — you don't know wher e he goes, I suppose?" 
 
"No," said Tonks. 
 
"What did you want to see him about?" 
 
"Nothing in particular," said Tonks, pi cking, apparently uncon-sciously, at 
the sleeve of her robe. "I just thought he might know what's going on. I've 
heard rumors… people getting hurt." 
 
"Yeah, I know, it's all been in the pa pers," said Harry. "That lit-tle kid 
trying to kill his —" 
 
"The Prophet's often behind the times,"  said Tonks, who didn't seem to be 
listening to him. "You haven't had a ny letters from any- one in the Order 
recently?" 
 "No one from the Order writes to me anymore," said Harry, "not since 
Sirius —“ He saw that her eyes had filled with tears. 
 
"I'm sorry," he muttered awkwardly.  "I mean... I miss him, as well." 
 
"What?" said Tonks blankly, as though  she had not heard him. "Well. I'll 
see you around, Harry.” 
 
And she turned abruptly and walk ed back down the corridor, leaving 
Harry to stare after her. After a minute or so, he pulled th e Invisibility Cloak 
on again and resumed his efforts to get into the Room of Requirement, but 
his heart was not in it. Finally, a hollow feeling in his stomach and the 
knowledge that Ron and Hermione woul d soon be back for lunch made him 
abandon the attempt and leave the corri dor to Malfoy who, hopefully, would 
be too afraid to leave for some hours to come. 
 
He found Ron and Hermione in the Great Hall, already halfway through 
an early lunch. 
 
"I did it — well, kind of!" Ron told Harry enthusiastically when he caught 
sight of him. "I was supposed to be Apparating to out-side Madam 
Puddifoots Tea Shop and I overshot it a bit,  ended up near Scrivenshafts, but 
at least I moved!" 
 
"Good one," said Harry. "H ow'd you do, Hermione?" 
 "Oh, she was perfect, obviously," sa id Ron, before Hermione could 
answer. "Perfect deliberation, divinatio n, and desperation or whatever the 
hell it is — we all went fo r a quick drink in the Th ree Broomsticks after and 
you should've heard Twycross going on a bout her — I'll be surprised if he 
doesn't pop the question soon —" 
 
"And what about you?" asked Hermi one, ignoring Ron. "Have you been 
up at the Room of Requirement all this time?" 
 
"Yep," said Harry. "And guess w ho I ran into up there? Tonks!" 
 
"Tonks?" repeated Ron and Hermione together, looking surprised. 
 
"Yeah, she said she'd come to visit Dumbledore." 
 
"If you ask me," said Ron once Ha rry had finished describing his 
conversation with Tonks, "she's crac king up a bit. Losing her nerve after 
what happened at the Ministry." 
 
"It’s a bit odd," said Hermione, who for some reason looked very 
concerned. "She's supposed to be guarding the school, why she suddenly 
abandoning her post to come and see Du mbledore when he's not even here?" 
 
"I had a thought," said Harry tentativel y. He felt strange about voicing it; 
this was much more Hermione’s territo ry than his. "You don't think she can 
have been... you know... in love with Sirius?" 
 Hermione stared at him. "Wha t on earth makes you say that?" 
 
"I dunno," said Harry, shrugging, "but she was nearly crying when I 
mentioned his name, and her Patronus is a big four-legged thing now. I 
wondered whether it hadn't become... you know... him." 
 
"It's a thought," said Hermione slow ly. "But I still don't know why she'd 
be bursting into the castle to see Dumb ledore, if that's re-ally why she was 
here." 
 
"Goes back to what I said, doesn't it?" said Ron, who was now shoveling 
mashed potato into his mouth. "She's  gone a bit funny. Lost her nerve. 
Women," he said wisely to Ha rry, "they're easily upset." 
 
"And yet," said Hermione, coming out of  her reverie, "I doubt you'd find a 
woman who sulked for half an hour because Madam Rosmerta didn't laugh 
at their joke about the hag, the He aler, and the Mimbul us mimbletonia." 
 
Ron scowled. 
CHAPTER 22 
 
 Patches of bright blue sky were beginning to appear over the castle 
turrets, but these signs of approachi ng summer did not lift Harry's mood. He 
had been thwarted, both in his attempts to find out what Malfoy was doing, 
and in his efforts to start a convers ation with Slughorn that might lead, 
somehow, to Slughorn hand-ing over the memory he had apparently 
suppressed for decades. 
 
"For the last time, just forget about  Malfoy," Hermione told Harry firmly. 
 
They were sitting with Ron in a sunny co rner of the courtyard after lunch. 
Hermione and Ron were both clutchi ng a Ministry of Magic leaflet — 
Common Apparition Mistakes and How to Avoid Them — for they were 
taking their tests that very afternoon, but by and large the leaflets had not 
proved soothing to the nerves. 
 
Ron gave a start and tried to hide be hind Hermione as a girl came around 
the corner. 
 
"It isn't Lavender," said Hermione wearily. 
 
"Oh, good," said Ron, relaxing. 
 
"Harry Potter?" said the girl. "I  was asked to give you this." 
 
"Thanks..."  
Harry's heart sank as he took the sma ll scroll of parchment. Once the girl 
was out of earshot he said, "Dumble dore said we wouldn't be having any 
more lessons until I got the memory!" 
 
"Maybe he wants to check on how you' re doing?" suggested Hermione, as 
Harry unrolled the parchmen t; but rather than finding Dumbledore's long, 
narrow, slanted writing he saw an untidy sprawl, very difficult to read due to 
the presence of large blotches on th e parchment where the ink had run. 
 
 Dear Harry, Ron and Hermione! 
Aragog died last night. Harry and R on, you met him and you know how 
special he was. 
Hermione, I know you'd have liked him. 
It would mean a lot to me if you'd nip down for the burial later this 
evening. 
I'm planning on doing it round dusk, that was his favorite time of day. 
I know you're not supposed to be out that late, but you can use the cloak. 
Wouldn't ask, but I can't face it alone. 
Hagrid 
 
"Look at this," said Harry, handing the note to Hermione. "Oh, for 
heaven's sake," she said, scanning it qui ckly and passing it to  Ron, who read 
it through looking increasingly incredulous.  "He's mental" he said furiously. 
"That thing told its mates to eat Harry and me! Told them to help 
themselves! And now Hagrid ex-pects us  to go down there and cry over its 
horrible hairy body!" 
 "Its not just that," said Hermione. "H e's asking us to leave the castle at 
night and he knows security's a million times tighter and how much trouble 
we'd be in if we were caught." 
 
"We've been down to see him by night before," said Harry. 
 
"Yes, but for something like this?" said Hermione. "We've risked a lot to 
help Hagrid out, but after all — Aragog's dead. If it were a question of saving him —" 
 
"— I'd want to go even less," said Ron firmly. "You didn't meet him, 
Hermione. Believe me, being dead will have improved him a lot." 
 
Harry took the note back and stared down at all the inky blotches all over 
it. Tears had clearly fallen thick and fast upon the parchment. . . . 
 
"Harry, you can't be thinking of going," said Hermione. "It's such a 
pointless thing to get detention for." 
 
Harry sighed. "Yeah, I know," he said. "I s'pose Hagrid'll have to bury 
Aragog without us." 
 
"Yes, he will," said Hermione, looki ng relieved. "Look, Potions will be 
almost empty this afternoon, with us all off doing our tests. . . . Try and 
soften Slughorn up a bit then!" 
 
"Fifty-seventh time lucky, you think?" said Harry bitterly.  
"Lucky," said Ron suddenly. "Harry, that's it — get lucky!" 
 
"What d'you mean?" 
 
"Use your lucky potion!" 
 
"Ron, that's — that's it!" said He rmione, sounding st unned. "Of course! 
Why didn't I think of it?" 
 
Harry stared at them both. "Felix Felic is?" he said. "I dunno . . . I was sort 
of saving it. ..." 
 
"What for?" demanded Ron incredulously. 
 
"What on earth is more important than this memory, Harry?" asked 
Hermione. 
 
Harry did not answer. The thought of that little golden bottle had hovered 
on the edges of his imagination for some time; vague and unformulated 
plans that involved Ginny splitting up with Dean, and Ron somehow being 
happy to see her with a new boyfriend, ha d been fermenting in the depths of 
his brain, unacknowledged except during dreams or the twilight time 
between sleeping and waking. . . . 
 
"Harry? Are you still with  us?" asked Hermione. 
 "Wha — ? Yeah, of course," he said , pulling himself together. "Well. . . 
okay. If I can't get Slughorn to talk this afternoon, I'll take some Felix and 
have another go this evening." 
 
"That's decided, then," said Hermi one briskly, getting to her feet and 
performing a graceful pirouette. "Des tination . . . determina-tion . . . 
deliberation . . ." she murmured. 
 
"Oh, stop that," Ron begged her, "I feel sick enough as it is — quick, hide 
me!" 
 
"It isn't Lavender!" said Hermione impa tiently, as another cou-ple of girls 
appeared in the courtyard and Ron dived behind her. 
 
"Cool," said Ron, peering over Herm iones shoulder to check. "Blimey, 
they don't look happy, do they?" 
 
"They're the Montgomery sisters and of course they don't look happy, 
didn't you hear what happened to their little brother?" said Hermione. 
 
"I'm losing track of what's happening  to everyone's relatives, to be 
honest," said Ron. 
 
"Well, their brother was attacked by a werewolf. Th e rumor is that their 
mother refused to help the Death Ea ters. Anyway, the boy was only five and 
he died in St. Mungos, they couldn't save him." 
 "He died?" repeated Harry, shocked. "But surely werewolves don't kill, 
they just turn you into one of them?" 
 
"They sometimes kill," said Ron, w ho looked unusually grave now. "I've 
heard of it happening when the werewolf gets carried away." 
 
"What was the werewolf's name?" said Harry quickly. 
 
"Well, the rumor is that it was that Fenrir Greyback," said Hermione. 
 
"I knew it — the maniac who likes att acking kids, the one Lupin told me 
about!" said Harry angrily. 
 
Hermione looked at him bleakly. 
 
"Harry, you've got to get that memory,"  she said. "It's all about stopping 
Voldemort, isn't it? These dreadful things  that are hap-pening are all down to 
him. . . ." 
 
The bell rang overhead in the castle and both Hermione and Ron jumped 
to their feet, looking terrified. 
 
"You'll do fine," Harry told them both, as they headed toward the entrance 
hall to meet the rest of the people ta king their Ap-parition Test. "Good luck." 
 
"And you too!" said Hermione with a significant look, as Harry headed 
off to the dungeons.  
There were only three of them in Poti ons that afternoon: Harry, Ernie, and 
Draco Malfoy. 
 
 “All too young to Apparate just yet?" said Slughorh genially, "Not turned 
seventeen yet?" 
 
They shook their heads. 
 
"Ah well," said Slughorn cheerily, "as we're so few, we'll do something 
for fun. I want you all to brew me up something amusing!" 
 
"That sounds good, sir," said Ernie sycophantically, rubbing his hands 
together. Malfoy, on the other hand, did not crack a smile. "What do you 
mean, 'something amusing'?" he said i rritably. "Oh, surprise me," said 
Slughorn airily. 
 
Malfoy opened his copy of Advanc ed Potion-Making with a sulky 
expression. It could not ha ve been plainer that he thought this les-son was a 
waste of time. Undoubtedly, Harry thoug ht, watching him over the top of his 
own book, Malfoy was begrudging the time he could otherwise be spending 
in the Room of Requirement. 
 
Was it his imagination, or did Malf oy, like Tonks, look thinner! Certainly 
he looked paler; his skin still had that grayish tinge , probably because he so 
rarely saw daylight these days. But there was no air of smugness, 
excitement, or superiority; none of the swagger that he had had on the Hogwarts Express, when he had boast ed openly of the mission he had been 
given by Voldemort. . . . There coul d be only one conclusion, in Harry's 
opinion: The mission, whatever it was, was going badly. 
 
Cheered by this thought, Harry skim med through his c opy of Advanced 
Potion-Making and found a heavily corr ected Half-Blood Prince's version of 
"An Elixir to Induce Euphoria," which seemed not only to meet Slughorn's 
instructions, but which might (Harry's he art leapt as the thought struck him) 
put Slughorn into such a good mood that  he would be prepared to hand over 
that memory if Harry could persuade him to taste some. . . . 
 
"Well, now, this looks absolutely w onderful," said Slughorn an hour and a 
half later, clapping his hands together as he stared down into the sunshine 
yellow contents of Harry's cauldron. "E uphoria, I take it? And what's that I 
smell? Mmmm . . . you've added just a sprig of peppermint, haven't you? 
Unorthodox, but what a stroke of inspiration, Harry, of course, that would 
tend to counterbalance the occa-sional si de effects of excessive singing and 
nose-tweaking. ... I really don't know where you get these brain waves, my boy . . . unless —" 
 
Harry pushed the Half-Blood Prince's book deeper into his bag with his 
foot. 
 
"— it's just your mother's genes coming out in you!" 
 
"Oh . . . yeah, maybe," said Harry, relieved. 
 Ernie was looking rather grumpy; dete rmined to outshine Harry for once, 
he had most rashly invented his own potion, which had cu rdled and formed a 
kind of purple dumpling at the botto m of his cauldron. Malfoy was already 
packing up, sour-faced; Slughorn ha d pronounced his Hiccuping Solution 
merely "passable." 
 
The bell rang and both Ernie and Malfoy left at once. "Sir," Harry began, 
but Slughorn immediately glanced over his shoulder; when he saw that the 
room was empty but for himself and Harry , he hurried away as fast as he 
could. 
 
"Professor — Professor, don't you want to taste my po — ?" called Harry 
desperately. 
 
But Slughorn had gone. Disappointed, Harry emptied the caul-dron, 
packed up his things, left the dungeon, and walked slowly back upstairs to 
the common room. 
 
Ron and Hermione returned in the late afternoon. 
 
"Harry!" cried Hermione as she clim bed through the portrait hole. "Harry, 
I passed!" 
 
"Well done!" he said. "And Ron?" 
 
"He — he just failed," whispered He rmione, as Ron came slouching into 
the room looking most morose. "It was really unlucky, a tiny thing, the examiner just spotted that he'd left ha lf an eyebrow behind. . . How did it go 
with Slughorn?" 
 
"No joy," said Harry, as Ron joined them. "Bad luck, mate, but you'll pass 
next time — we can take it together." 
 
"Yeah, I s'pose," said Ron grumpily. "But half an eyebrow – like that 
matters!" 
 
"I know," said Hermione soothingly, "it does seem really harsh. ..." 
 
They spent most of their dinner round ly abusing the Apparition examiner, 
and Ron looked fractionally more cheerfu l by the time they set off back to 
the common room, now discussing the c ontinuing problem of Slughorn and 
the memory. 
 
"So, Harry — you going to use the Felix  Felicis or what?" Ron demanded. 
 
"Yeah, I s'pose I'd better," said Harry. "I  don't reckon I'll need all of it, not 
twenty-four hours' worth, it can't take all night.... I'll just take a mouthful. 
Two or three hours should do it." 
 
"It's a great feeling when you take it," said Ron reminiscently. "Like you 
can't do anything wrong." 
 
"What are you talking about?" said Hermione, laughing. "You've never 
taken any!"  
"Yeah, but I thought I had, didn't I?" said Ron, as thoug h ex-plaining the 
obvious. "Same difference really ..." 
 
As they had only just seen Slughorn enter the Great Hall and knew that he 
liked to take time over meals, they li ngered for a while in the common room, 
the plan being that Harry should go to Slughorn s office once the teacher had 
had time to get back there. When the s un had sunk to the level of the treetops 
in the Forbid-den Forest, they deci ded the moment had come, and after 
check-ing carefully that Neville, Dean , and Seamus were all in the common 
room, sneaked up to the boys' dormitory. 
 
Harry took out the rolled-up socks at the bottom of his trunk and extracted 
the tiny, gleaming bottle. 
 
"Well, here goes," said Harry, and he  raised the little bottle and look a 
carefully measured gulp. 
 
"What does it feel like?" whispered Hermione. 
 
Harry did not answer for a moment . Then, slowly but surely, an 
exhilarating sense of infin ite opportunity stole through him; he felt as though 
he could have done anythi ng, anything at all... a nd getting the memory from 
Slughorn seemed suddenly not only pos-sible, but positively easy. . . . 
 
He got to his feet, smiling, brimming with confidence. 
 "Excellent," he said. "Really ex cellent. Right. . . I'm going down to 
Hagrid's." 
 
"What?" said Ron and Hermione  together, looking aghast. 
 
"No, Harry — you've got to go an d see Slughorn, remember?" said 
Hermione. 
 
"No," said Harry confidently. "I'm going to Hagrid's, I've got a good 
feeling about going to Hagrid's." 
 
"You've got a good feeling about burying a giant spider?" asked Ron, 
looking stunned. 
 
"Yeah," said Harry, pulling his Invisibil ity Cloak out of his bag. "I feel 
like it's the place to be tonight, you know what I mean?" 
 
"No," said Ron and Herm ione together, both looking positively alarmed 
now. 
 
"This is Felix Felicis, I suppose?" said Hermione anxiously, holding up 
the bottle to the light. "You haven't got another little bottle full of— I don't 
know —" 
 
"Essence of Insanity?" suggested R on, as Harry swung his cloak over his 
shoulders. 
 Harry laughed, and Ron and Hermione looked even more alarmed. 
 
"Trust me," he said. "I know what I' m doing ... or at least" he strolled 
confidently to the door— "Felix does." 
 
He pulled the Invisibility Cloak over hi s head and set off down the stairs, 
Ron and Hermione hurryi ng along behind him. At the foot of the stairs, 
Harry slid through the open door. 
 
"What were you doing up there with her!” shrieked Lavender Brown, 
staring right through Harry at Ron a nd Hermione emerging together from the 
boys' dormitories. Harry heard Ron splu tter-ing behind him as he darted 
across the room away from them. 
 
Getting through the portrait hole was si mple; as he approached it, Ginny 
and Dean came through it, and Harry was able to slip between them. As he 
did so, he brushed accidentally against Ginny. 
 
"Don't push me, please, Dean," she said, sounding annoyed. ; "You're 
always doing that, I can get through perfectly well on my own. ..." 
 
The portrait swung closed behind Harry, but not before he had heard Dean 
make an angry retort.. . . His feeling of  elation in-creasing, Harry strode off 
through the castle. He did not have to  creep along, for he  met nobody on his 
way, but this did not surprise him in th e slightest. This evening, he was the 
luckiest person at Hogwarts. 
 Why he knew that going to Hagrid's was the right thing to do, he had no 
idea. It was as though the potion was illu minating a few steps of the path at a 
time. He could not see the final destin ation, he could not see where Slughorn 
came in, but he knew that he was going  the right way to get that memory. 
When he reached the en-tra nce hall he saw that Filc h had forgotten to lock 
the front door. Beaming, Harry threw it open and breathed in the smell of 
clean air and grass for a moment befo re walking down the steps into the 
dusk. 
 
It was when he reached the bottom st ep that it occurred to him how very 
pleasant it would be to pass the vegeta ble patch on his walk to Hagrid's. It 
was not strictly on the way, but it seemed  clear to Harry that this was a whim 
on which he should act, so he di-rected his feet immediately toward the 
vegetable patch, where he was pleased, but  not altogether surprised, to find 
Professor Slughorn in conversation with  Professor Sprout. Harry lurked 
be-hind a low stone wall, feeling at p eace with the world and listening to 
their conversation. 
 
"I do thank you for taking the tim e, Pomona," Slughorn was saying 
courteously, "most authorities agree that th ey are at their most efficacious if 
picked at twilight." 
 
"Oh, I quite agree," said Professo r Sprout warmly. "That enough for 
you?" 
 
"Plenty, plenty," said Slughorn, w ho, Harry saw, was carrying an armful 
of leafy plants. "This should allow for a few leaves for each of my third years, and some to spare if anybo dy over-stews them. . . . Well, good 
evening to you, and many thanks again!" 
 
Professor Sprout headed of f into the gathering darkness in the direction of 
her greenhouses, and Slughorn directed his steps to the spot where Harry 
stood, invisible. 
 
Seized with an immediate desire to reveal himself, Harry pullet I off the 
cloak with a flourish. 
 
"Good evening, Professor." 
 
"Merlin’s beard, Harry, you made me  jump," said Slughotn, stopping dead 
in his tracks and looking wary. "How did you get out of the castle?" 
 
"I think Filch must've forgotten to lock the doors," said Harry cheerfully, 
and was delighted to see Slughorn scowl. 
 
"I'll be reporting that man, he's mo re concerned about litter than proper 
security if you ask me. . . . Bu t why are you out then, Harry?" 
 
"Well, sir, it's Hagrid," said Harry, who knew that the right thing to do 
just now was to tell the truth. "He' s pretty upset. . . But you won't tell 
anyone, Professor? I don't want trouble for him. ..." 
 Slughorn's curiosity was evidently arous ed. "Well, I can't promise that," 
he said gruffly. "But I know that Dumble dore trusts Hagrid to the hilt, so I'm 
sure he can't be up to anything very dreadful. .." 
 
"Well, it's this giant spider, he's had it for years. ... It lived  in the forest. ... 
It could talk and everything —" 
 
"I heard rumors there were acromantul as in the forest," said Slughorn 
softly, looking over at the mass of black trees. "It's true, then?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry. "But this one, Ara gog, the first one Hagrid ever got, it 
died last night. He's devastated. He wants company while he buries it and I 
said I'd go." 
 
"Touching, touching," said Slughorn absentmindedly, his large droopy 
eyes fixed upon the distant lights of Ha grid's cabin. "But acromantula venom 
is very valuable ... If the beast only just died it might not yet have dried out. . 
. . Of course, I wouldn't want to do anything insensitive if Hagrid is upset. . . 
but if there was any way to procure so me ... I mean, its al most impossible to 
get venom from an acromantula while its alive. ..." 
 
Slughorn seemed to be ta lking more to himself than Harry now. ". . . 
seems an awful waste not to collect it... might get a hun-dred Galleons a 
pint. ... To be frank, my sala ry is not large. . . ." 
 
And now Harry saw clearly what was to  be done. "Well," he said, with a 
most convincing hesitancy, "well, if you wanted to  come, Professor, Hagrid would probably be really pleased. . . . Give Aragog a better send-off, you 
know ..." 
 
 "Yes, of course," said Slughorn, his eyes now gleaming with 
en-thusiasm. "I tell you what, Harry, I' ll meet you down there with a bottle 
or two. . . . We'll drink the poor beast's — well — not health — but we'll 
send it off in style, anyway, once it's buried. And I'll change my tie, this one 
is a little exuberant for the occa-sion. . . ." 
 
He bustled back into the castle, and Ha rry sped off to Hagrid's, delighted 
with himself. 
 
"Yen came," croaked Hagrid, when he opened the door and saw Harry 
emerging from the Invisibility Cloak in front of him. 
 
"Yeah — Ron and Hermi one couldn't, though," sa id Harry. "They're 
really sorry." 
 
"Don — don matter . . . Hed' ve bin touched yeh're here, though, Harry. . ." 
 
Hagrid gave a great sob.  He had made himself a black armband out of 
what looked like a rag dipped in boot polish, and his eyes were puffy, red, 
and swollen. Harry patted him conso lingly on the elbow, which was the 
highest point of Hagrid he could easily reach. 
 
"Where are we burying him?" he asked. "The forest?" 
 "Blimey, no," said Hagrid, wiping hi s streaming eyes on the bot-tom of 
his shirt. "The other spiders won' le t me anywhere near  their webs now 
Aragog's gone. Turns out it was only on hi s orders they didn' eat me! Can 
yeh believe that, Harry?" 
 
The honest answer was "yes"; Harry recalled with painful ease the scene 
when he and Ron had come face-to-face with the aero-mantulas. They had 
been quite clear that Aragog was the only thing that stopped them from 
eating Hagrid. 
 
 "Never bin an area o' the forest I couldn' go before!" said Hagrid, shaking 
his head. "It wasn' easy, gettin' Aragog' s body out o' there,  I can tell yeh — 
they usually eat their dead, see. . . . Bu t I wanted ter give 'im a nice burial... a 
proper send-off. . ." 
 
He broke into sobs ag ain and Harry resumed th e patting of his elbow, 
saying as he did so (for the potion seemed to indicate that it was the right 
thing to do), "Professor Slughorn met me coming down here, Hagrid." 
 
"Not in trouble, are yeh?" said Hagrid, looking up, alarmed. "Yeh 
shouldn’ be outta the castle in the ev enin', I know it, it's my fault —" 
 
"No, no, when he heard what I was doi ng he said he'd like to come and 
pay his last respects to Aragog too," said Harry. 
 
"He's gone to change into something more suitable, I think…and he said 
he'd bring some bottles so we ca n drink to Aragog's mem-ory...”  
 "Did he?" said Hagrid, looking bot h astonished and touched. "Tha's — 
tha's righ' nice of him, that is, an' not turnin' yeh in ei-ther. I've never really 
had a lot ter do with Horace Slughorn be fore. .. . Comin' ter see old Aragog 
off, though, eh? Well. . . he’d've liked that, Aragog would. . . ." 
 
Harry thought privately that what Aragog would have liked most about 
Slughorn was the ample amount of edible  flesh he pro-vided, but he merely 
moved to the rear window of Hagrid's hut, where he saw the rather horrible 
sight of the enormous dead spider lyin g on its back outside, its legs curled 
and tangled. 
 
"Are we going to bury him here , Hagrid, in your garden?" 
 
"Jus' beyond the pumpkin patch, I t hought," said Hagrid in a choked 
voice. "I've already dug the — yeh know — grave. Jus' thought we'd say a 
few nice things over him — happy memories, yeh know —" 
 
His voice quivered and broke. There was a knock on the door, and he 
turned to answer it, blowing his nose on his great spotted handkerchief as he did so. Slughorn hurried over the thresh old, several bottles in his arms, and 
wearing a somber black cravat. 
 
"Hagrid," he said, in a deep, grave voi ce. "So very sorry to hear of your 
loss." 
 "Tha's very nice of yeh," said Hagrid . "Thanks a lot. An' thanks fer not 
givin Harry detention neither. . . ." 
 
"Wouldn't have dreamed of it," said Sl ughorn. "Sad night,  sad night. . . 
Where is the poor creature?" 
 
"Out here," said Hagrid in a shaki ng voice. "Shall we — shall we do it, 
then?" 
 
 The three of them stepped out in to the back garden. The moon was 
glistening palely through the trees now, and its rays mingled with the light 
spilling from Hagrid's window to illumin ate Aragogs body lying on the edge 
of a massive pit beside a ten-f oot- high mound of freshly dug earth. 
 
"Magnificent," said Slughorn, approaching the spiders head, where eight 
milky eyes stared blankly at the sky and two huge, curved pincers shone, 
motionless, in the moonlight. Harry tho ugln he heard the tinkle of bottles as 
Slughorn bent over the pincers, appare ntly examining the enormous hairy 
head. 
 
"Its not ev'ryone appreciates how beau 'iful they are’ said H grid to 
Slughorn's back, tears leaking from the co rners of his crinkled eyes. "I didn' 
know yeh were interested in cr eatures like Aragog, Horace." 
 
"Interested? My dear Hagrid, I revere  them," said Slugh orn, stepping back 
from the body. Harry saw the glint of a bottle disap-pear beneath his cloak, though Hagrid, mopping his eyes once more, noticed nothing. "Now . . . 
shall we proceed to the burial?" 
 
Hagrid nodded and moved fo rward. He heaved the gigantic spi-der into 
his arms and, with an enormous grunt, rolled it into the dark pit. It hit the 
bottom with a rather horrible, crunchy thud. Hagrid started to cry again. 
 
"Of course, it's difficult for you, who knew him best," said Slughorn, who 
like Harry could reach no higher than Hagrid's el-bow, but patted it all the 
same. "Why don't I say a few words?" 
 
He must have got a lot of good quality venom from Aragog, Harry 
thought, for Slughorn wore a satisfied smirk as he stepped up to the rim of 
the pit and said, in a slow, impressive  voice, "Farewell, Aragog, king of 
arachnids, whose long and faithful friendship those who knew you won't 
forget! Though your body will decay, your  spirit lingers on in the quiet, 
web-spun places of your forest home.  May your many-eyed descendants 
ever flourish and your human friends find solace for the loss they have 
sustained." 
 
"Tha was . . . tha was . . . beau'ifu l!" howled Hagrid, and he collapsed 
onto the compost heap, crying harder than ever. 
 
"There, there," said Slugh orn, waving his wand so that the huge pile of 
earth rose up and then fell, with a muffled  sort of crash, onto the dead spider, 
forming a smooth mound. "Lets get inside  and have a drink. Get on his other 
side, Harry. . . . That's it. ... Up you come, Hagrid . . . Well done ..."  
They deposited Hagrid in a chair at the table. Fang, who had been 
skulking in his basket during the burial, now came padding softly across to 
them and put his heavy head into Harry 's lap as usual. Slughorn uncorked 
one of the bottles of wine he had brought. 
 
"I have had it all tested for poison," he assured Harry, pouring most of the 
first bottle into one of Hagrid's bucke t-sized mugs and handing it to Hagrid. 
"Had a house-elf taste every bottle afte r what happened to your poor friend 
Rupert." 
 
Harry saw, in his mind's eye, the expr ession on Hermione's face if she 
ever heard about this abuse of houseelve s, and decided never to mention it to 
her. 
 
"One for Harry . . ." said Slughorn, dividing a second bottle be-tween two 
mugs, ". . . and one for me. Well" — he raised his mug high — "to Aragog." 
 
"Aragog," said Harry and Hagrid t ogether. Both Slughorn and Hagrid 
drank deeply. Harry, however, with th e way ahead illuminated for him by 
Felix Felicis, knew that he must not drin k, so he merely pr etended to take a 
gulp and then set the mug back on the table before him. 
 
"I had him from an egg, yeh know," said Hagrid morosely. "'Tiny little 
thing he was when he hatched.  'Bout the size of a Pekingese” 
 
"Sweet," said Slughorn.  
"Used ter keep him in a cupboard up at the school until . . . well..." 
 
Hagrid's face darkened and Harry knew why: Tom Riddle had contrived 
to have Hagrid thrown out of school, blamed for opening the Chamber of 
Secrets. Slughorn, however, did not seem  to be listening; he was looking up 
at the ceiling, from which a number of br ass pots hung, and also a long, silky 
skein of bright white hair. 
 
"That's not unicorn hair, Hagrid?" 
 
"Oh, yeah," said Hagrid indifferently . "Gets pulled out of their tails, they 
catch it on branches an' stuff in the forest, yeh know ..." 
 
"But my dear chap, do you k now how much that's worth?" 
 
"I use it fer bindin' on bandages an stu ff if a creature gets in jured," said 
Hagrid, shrugging. "It's dead useful. . . very strong.” 
 
Slughorn took another deep draught from his mug, his eyes moving 
carefully around the cabin now, looking, Harry knew, for more treasures that 
he might be able to convert into a plentiful su ply of oak-matured mead, 
crystalized pineapple, and velvet smok- ing jackets. He refilled Hagrid's mug 
and his own, and questioned him about the creatures that lived in the forest 
these days and how Hagrid was able to look after them all. Hagrid, 
becoming expan-sive under the influe nce of the drink and Slughorn's flattering in-terest, stopped mopping his eyes and entered happily into a long 
explanation of bowtruckle husbandry. 
 
The Felix Felicis gave Harry a little nudge at this point, and he noticed 
that the supply of drink that Slugho rn had brought was running out fast. 
Harry had not yet managed to bring off the Re-filling Charm without saying 
the incantation aloud, but the idea that he  might not be able to do it tonight 
was laughable: Indeed, Harry grinned to himself as, unnoticed by either 
Hagrid or Slug-liorn (now swapping tale s of the illegal trade in dragon eggs) 
he pointed his wand under the table at the emptying bottles and they 
immediately began to refill. 
 
After an hour or so, Hagrid a nd Slughorn began making extravagant 
toasts: to Hogwarts, to Dumbledore, to elf-made wine, and to- 
 
"Harry Potter!" bellowed Hagrid, sloppi ng some of his four-teenth bucket 
of wine down his chin as he drained it. 
 
"Yes, indeed," cried Slughorn a little th ickly, "Parry Otter, the Chosen 
Boy Who — well — something of that so rt," he mumbled, and drained his 
mug too. 
 
Not long after this, Hagrid became tearful again and pressed the whole 
unicorn tail upon Slughorn, who pocketed it with cries of, "To friendship! 
To generosity! To ten Galleons a hair!" 
 
  And for a while after that, Hagrid a nd Slughorn were s itting side by side, 
arms around each other, singing a slow sad song about a dying wizard called 
Odo. 
 
"Aaargh, the good die young," muttered Hagrid, slumping low onto the 
table, a little cross-eyed, while Slughor n continued to war-ble the refrain. 
"Me dad was no age ter go ... nor were  yer mum' an' dad, Harry . . ." 
 
Great fat tears oozed out of  the corners of Hagrid's crinkled eyes again; he 
grasped Harry's arm and shook it 
 
"Bes' wiz and witchard o' their age … I never knew.. . terrible thing . . . 
terrible thing ..." 
 
“And Odo the hero, they bore him back home 
 
To the place that he 'd known as a lad,” 
 
sang Slughorn plaintively. 
 
“They laid him to rest with his hat inside out. 
 
And his wand snapped in two, which was sad.” 
 
". . . terrible," Hagrid grunted, and his great sh aggy head rolled sideways 
onto his arms and he fell asleep, snoring deeply. 
 "Sorry," said Slughorn with a hiccup. " Can't carry a tune to save my life." 
 
"Hagrid wasn't talking about your si nging," said Harry quietly. "He was 
talking about my mum and dad dying." 
 
"Oh," said Slughorn, repressing a larg e belch. "Oh dear. Yes, that was — 
was terrible indeed. Terrible . . . terrible ..." 
 
He looked quite at a loss for what to  say, and resorted to refilling their 
mugs. 
 
"I don't — don't suppose you remember it, Harry?" he asked awkwardly. 
 
"No — well, I was only one when they died," said Harry, his eyes on the 
flame of the candle flickering in Hagrid's heavy snores. "But I've found out 
pretty much what happened since. My dad died first. Did you know that?" 
 
"I — I didn't," said Slughorn in a hushed voice. 
 
"Yeah . . . Voldemort murdered him and then stepped over his body 
toward my mum," said Harry. 
 
Slughorn gave a great shudder, but he  did not seem able to tear his 
horrified gaze away from Harry's face. 
 
"He told her to get out of the way," sa id Harry remorselessly. "He told me 
she needn't have died. He only wa nted me. She could have run."  
"Oh dear," breathed Slughorn. "She coul d have . . . she needn't . . . That's 
awful. . . ." 
 
"It is, isn't it?" said Harry, in a voice barely more than a whisper. "But she 
didn't move. Dad was already dead, but she didn't want me to go too. She 
tried to plead with Voldemort. . . but he just laughed...." 
 
"That's enough!" said Slughorn suddenly, raising a shaking hand. "Really, 
my dear boy, enough . . . I'm an old ma n ... I don't need to hear ... I don't 
want to hear ..." 
 
"I forgot," lied Harry, Felix Felicis l eading him on. "You liked her, didn't 
you?" 
 
"Liked her?" said Slughorn, his eyes  brimming with tears once more. "I 
don't imagine anyone who met her wouldn't have liked her. . . . Very brave . 
. . Very funny... It was the most horrible thing. ..." 
 
"But you won't help her son," said Harry. "She gave me her life, but you 
won't give me a memory." 
 
Hagrid's rumbling snores filled the cabin. Harry looke d steadily into 
Slughorn's tear-filled eyes. The Potions master seemed unable to look away. 
 
"Don't say that," he whispe red. "It isn't a question ... If it were to help you, 
of course . . . but no purpose can be served . . ."  
"It can," said Harry clearly. "Dumbl edore needs information. I need 
information." 
 
He knew he was safe: Felix was telling him that Slughorn would 
remember nothing of this in the morning. Looking Slughorn straight in the 
eye, Harry leaned forward a little. 
 
"I am the Chosen One. I have to  kill him. I need that memory." 
 
 Slughorn turned paler than ever; his shiny forehead gleamed with sweat. 
 
"You are the Chosen One?" . . I. 
 
"Of course I am," said Harry calmly. 
 
"But then . . . my dear boy . . . you're asking a great deal. . . you're asking 
me, in fact, to aid you in your attempt to destroy-“ 
 
"You don't want to get rid of the wizard who killed Lily Evans?'" 
 
"Harry, Harry, of course I do, but —" 
 
"You're scared he'll find out you helped me?" 
 
Slughorn said nothing; he looked terrified. 
 "Be brave like my mother, Professor. . . ." 
 
Slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pre ssed his shaking fingers to his 
mouth; he looked for a moment lik e an enormously overgrown baby. 
 
"I am not proud . . ." he whispered through his fingers. "I am ashamed of 
what — of what that memory shows. ... I think I may have done great 
damage that day. ..." 
 
"You'd cancel out anything you did by  giving me the memory," said 
Harry. "It would be a very brave and noble thing to do." 
 
Hagrid twitched in his sleep and snor ed on. Slughorn and Harry stared at 
each other over the guttering candle. There was a long, long silence, but 
Felix Felicis told Harry not to break it,  to wait. Then, ve ry slowly, Slughorn 
put his hand in his pocke t and pulled out his wand.  He put his other hand 
inside his cloak and took out a small,  empty bottle. Still looking into Harry's 
eyes, Slughorn touched the tip of his wand to his temple and withdrew it, so 
that a long, silver thread of memory came away too, clinging to the wand tip. 
Longer and longer the memory stretc hed until it broke and swung, silvery 
bright, from the wand. Slughorn lowered it into the bottle where it coiled, 
then spread, swirling like gas. He co rked the bottle with a trembling hand 
and then passed it across the table to Harry. 
 
"Thank you very much, Professor." 
 "You're a good boy," said Professor Slughorn, tears trickling down his fat 
cheeks into his walrus mustache. "And you've got her eyes. . . . Just don't 
think too badly of me once you've seen it. . . ," 
 
And he too put his head on his arms, gave a deep sigh, and fell asleep. 
CHAPTER 23
 
Harry could feel the Felix Felicis wear ing off as he creeped back into the 
castle. The front door had remained un lo cked for him, but on the third floor 
he met Peeves and only narrowly avoided detect ion by diving sideways 
through one of his shortcuts. By the tim e he got up to the portrait of the Fat 
Lady and pulled off his Invisi bility Cloak, he was not surprised to find her in 
a most unhelpful mood. 
 
"What sort of time do you call this?" 
 
"I'm really sorry — I had to go out for something important —" 
 
"Well, the password changed at midnight , so you'll just have to sleep in 
the corridor, won't you?" 
 
"You're joking!" said Harry. "Why did it have to change at midnight?" 
 
"That's the way it is," said the Fat La dy. "If you're angry, go and take it up 
with the headmaster, he's the one who's tightened security." 
 
"Fantastic," said Harry bitterly, l ooking around at the hard floor. "Really 
brilliant. Yeah, I would go and take it up with Dumbledore if he was here, 
because he's the one who wanted me to —" 
 
"He is here," said a voice behind Ha rry. "Professor Dumbledore returned 
to the school an hour ago."  
Nearly Headless Nick was gliding to ward Harry, his head wob-bling as 
usual upon his ruff. 
 
"I had it from the Bloody Baron, who saw him arrive," said Nick. "He 
appeared, according to the Baron, to be  in good spirits, though a little tired, 
of course." 
 
"Where is he?" said Harry, his heart leaping,” 
 
"Oh, groaning and clanking up on th e Astronomy Tower, it's a, favorite 
pastime of his —" 
 
"Not the Bloody Baron — Dumbledore!" 
 
"Oh — in his office," said Nick. "I believe, from what the Baron said, that 
he had business to attend to  before turning in —" 
 
"Yeah, he has," said Harry, excitement  blazing in his chest at the prospect 
of telling Dumbledore he had secured the memory. He wheeled about and 
sprinted off again, ignoring the Fat Lady who was ca lling after him. 
 
"Come back! All right, I lied! I was annoyed you w oke me up! The 
password's still 'tapeworm'!" 
 But Harry was already hurtling back  along the corridor and within 
minutes, he was saying "toffee eclair s" to Dumbledore's gar-goyle, which 
leapt aside, permitting Harry entrance onto the spiral staircase. 
 
"Enter," said Dumbledore when Harry  knocked. He sound ed exhausted. 
Harry pushed open the door. There was Dumbledore's office, looking the 
same as ever, but with black, st ar-strewn skies beyond the windows. 
 
"Good gracious, Harry," said Dumbledor e in surprise. "To what do I owe 
this very late pleasure?" 
 
"Sir — I've got it. I’ve got the memory from Slughorn." 
 
Harry pulled out the tiny glass bottle and showed it to Dumbledore. For a 
moment or two, the headmaster looked st unned. Then his face split in a wide 
smile. 
 
"Harry, this is spectacular news! Very well done indeed! I knew you 
could do it!" 
 
All thought of the lateness of the hou r apparently forgo tten, he hurried 
around his desk, took the bottle with Slughorn's memory in his uninjured 
hand, and strode over to the cabi net where he kepi the Pensieve. 
 
"And now," said Dumbledore, placing the stone basin upon the desk and 
emptying the contents of the bottle into it. "Now, at last. we shall see. Harry, 
quickly . . ."  
Harry bowed obediently over the Pensieve and felt his feet leave the 
office floor. . . . Once again he fell through darkness and landed in Horace 
Slughorn's office many years before. There was the much younger Slughorn, 
with his thick, shiny, straw-colore d hair and his gingery-blond mustache, 
sitting again in the comfortable winged armchair in his office, his feet 
resting upon a velvet pouffe, a small glass of wine in one hand, the other 
rummaging in a box of crystallized pinea pple. And there were the half dozen 
teenage boys sitting around Slughorn with  Tom Riddle in the midst of them, 
Marvolo's gold-and-black ring gleaming on his finger. 
 
Dumbledore landed beside Harry just as Riddle asked, "Sir is it true that 
Professor Merrythought is retiring?" 
 
"Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn't tell you," said Slughorn, wag-ging his 
finger reprovingly at Riddle, though winking at the same time. "I must say, I'd like to know where you get your in formation, boy, more knowledgeable 
than half the staff, you are." 
 
Riddle smiled; the other boys laughed and cast him admiring looks. 
 
"What with your uncanny ability to kno w things you shouldn't, and your 
careful flattery of the people who ma tter — thank you for the pineapple, by 
the way, you're quite right, it is my favorite —" Several of the boys tittered 
again. "— I confidently expect you to rise to Minister of Magic within 
twenty years. Fifteen, if you keep se nding me pineapple, I have ex-cellent 
contacts at the Ministry."  
Tom Riddle merely smiled as the othe rs laughed again. Harry noticed that 
he was by no means the eldest of the grou p of boys, but that they all seemed 
to look to him as their leader. 
 
"I don't know that politics would suit me, sir," he said when the laughter 
had died away. "I don't have the right kind of background, for one thing." 
 
A couple of the boys around him smirked at each other. Harry was sure 
they were enjoying a private joke, un doubtedly about what they knew, or 
suspected, regarding their gang leader's famous ancestor. 
 
"Nonsense," said Slughorn briskly, "couldn't be plainer you come from 
decent Wizarding stock, abilities like your s. No, you'll go far, Tom, I've 
never been wrong about a student yet." 
 
The small golden clock standing upon Slughorn's desk chimed eleven 
o'clock behind him and he looked around. 
 
"Good gracious, is it that time alrea dy? You'd better ge t going boys, or 
we'll all be in trouble. Lestrange, I want your essay by in morrow or it's 
detention. Same goes for you, Avery." 
 
One by one, the boys filed out of the room. Slughorn heaved himself out 
of his armchair and carried his empt y glass over to his desk. A movement 
behind him made him look around; Riddle was still standing there. 
 "Look shar 
 
p, Tom, you don't want to be caught  out of bed out of hours, and you a 
prefect.. ." 
 
"Sir, I wanted to ask you somethi ng." -' "Ask away, then, m'boy, ask 
away. . . ." 
 
"Sir, I wondered what you know about. . . about Horcruxes?' 
 
Slughorn stared at him, his thick ringers absentmindedly clawing the stem 
of his wine glass. 
 
"Project for Defense Against the Dark Arts, is it?" 
 
But Harry could tell that Slughorn kne w perfectly well that this was not 
schoolwork. 
 
"Not exactly, sir," said Riddle. "I ca me across the term while reading and 
I didn't fully understand it." 
 
"No . . . well. . . you'd be  hard-pushed to find a book at Hogwarts that'll 
give you details on Horcruxe s, Tom, that's very Dark stuff, very Dark 
indeed," said Slughorn. 
 "But you obviously know all about them , sir? I mean, a wizard like you 
— sorry, I mean, if you can't tell me , obviously — I just knew if anyone 
could tell me, you could — so I just thought I'd –“ 
 
It was very well done, thought Harry, th e hesitancy, the casual tone, the 
careful flattery, none of it overdone . He, Harry, had had too much 
experience of trying to wheedle inform ation out of re-luctant people not to 
recognize a master at work. He could te ll that Riddle wanted the information 
very, very much; perhaps had been work ing toward this moment for weeks. 
 
"Well," said Slughorn, not looking at Riddle, but fiddling with the ribbon 
on top of his box of crysta llized pineapple, "well, it can't hurt to give you an 
overview, of course. Just so that you understand t he term. A Horcrux is the 
word used for an object in which a per-s on has concealed part of their soul." 
 
"I don't quite understand how that wo rks, though, sir," said Riddle. 
 
His voice was carefully controlled, but  Harry could sense his excitement. 
 
"Well, you split your soul, you see," said  Slughorn, "and hide part of it in 
an object outside the body. Then, even if  one's body is attacked or destroyed, 
one cannot die, for part of the soul  remains earthbound and undamaged. But 
of course, existence in such a form ..." 
 
Slughorn's face crumpled and Harry  found himself remember-ing words 
he had heard nearly two years before : "I was ripped from my body, I was 
less than spirit, less than the meanes t ghost. . . but still, I was alive."  
"... few would want it, Tom, very  few. Death would be preferable." 
 
But Riddle's hunger was now apparent; his expression was greedy, he 
could no longer hide his longing. 
 
"How do you split your soul?" 
 
"Well," said Slughorn uncomfortably, "you must understand that the soul 
is supposed to remain intact and whole. Splitting n it I an act of violation, it 
is against nature." 
 
"But how do you do it?" 
 
"By an act of evil — the supreme act of evil. By commiting murder. 
Killing rips the soul apart. The wizar d intent upon creating a Horcrux would 
use the damage to his advantage: He  would encase the torn portion —" 
 
"Encase? But how — ?" 
 
"There is a spell, do not ask me, I don't know!" said Sl ughoin shaking his 
head like an old elephant bothered by mosquitoes. " Do I look as though I 
have tried it — do I look like a killer?" 
 
"No, sir, of course not," said Riddle quickly. "I'm sorry ... I didn't mean to 
offend . . ." 
 "Not at all, not at all, not offended," said Slughorn gruffly,  "It is natural to 
feel some curiosity about these things. . . . Wizards of a certain caliber have 
always been drawn to that aspect of magic. . . ." 
 
"Yes, sir," said Riddle. "What I don' t understand, though — just out of 
curiosity — I mean, would one Horcr ux be much use? Can you only split 
your soul once? Wouldn't it be  better, make you stronge r, to have your soul 
in more pieces, I mean, fo r instance, isn't seven the most powerfully magical 
number, wouldn't seven — ?" 
 
"Merlin's beard, Tom!" yelped Slug horn. "Seven! Isn't it bad enough to 
think of killing one person? And in a ny case . . . bad enough to divide the 
soul . . . but to rip it into seven pieces . . ." 
 
Slughorn looked deeply troubled now: He was gazing at Riddle as though 
he had never seen him plainly before , and Harry could tell that he was 
regretting entering into th e conversation at all. 
 
"Of course," he muttered, "this is al l hypothetical, what we're discussing, 
isn't it? All academic . . ." 
 
"Yes, sir, of course," said Riddle quickly. 
 
"But all the same, Tom . . . keep it quie t, what I've told — that's to say, 
what we've discussed. People wouldn't like to think we've been chatting 
about Horcruxes. It's a banned subject at Hogwarts, you know. . . . 
Dumbledore's particularly fierce about it. ..."  
"I won't say a word, sir," said Riddle, and he left, but no t before Harry had 
glimpsed his face, which was full of th at same wild hap-piness it had worn 
when he had first found out that he was a wiz-ard, the sort of happiness that 
did not enhance his handsome featur es, but made them, somehow, less 
human. . . . 
 
"Thank you, Harry," said Dumbledore quietly. "Let us go. . . ." 
 
When Harry landed back on the offi ce floor Dumbledore was ; already 
sitting down behind his desk. Harry sa t too and waited for Dumbledore to 
speak. 
 
"I have been hoping for this piece of evidence for a very long time," said 
Dumbledore at last. "It confirms the th eory on which I have been working, it 
tells me that I am right, and also how  very far there is still to go. ..." 
 
Harry suddenly noticed that every single one of the old head-masters and 
headmistresses in the portraits around th e walls was awake and listening in 
on their conversation. A corpulent, re d nosed wizard had actually taken out 
an ear trumpet. 
 
"Well, Harry," said Dumbledore, "I am sure you understood the 
significance of what we just heard. At the same age as you are now, give or 
take a few months, Tom Riddle was doing all he could to find out how to 
make himself immortal." 
 "You think he succeeded then, sir?" asked Harry. "He made a Horcrux? 
And that's why he didn't die when he attacked me? He had a Horcrux hidden 
somewhere? A bit of his soul was safe?" 
 
"A bit... or more," said Dumbledor e. "You heard Voldemort, what he 
particularly wanted from Horace was an opinion on what would happen to 
the wizard who created more than one  Horcrux, what would happen to the 
wizard so determined to evade death th at he would be prepared to murder 
many times, rip his soul repeatedly, so as to store it in many, separately 
concealed Horcruxc. No book would have given him that  information. As far 
as I know — as far, I am sure, as  Voldemort knew — no wizard had ever 
done more than tear his soul in two." 
 
Dumbledore paused for a moment, mars haling his thought, and then said, 
"Four years ago, I received what I cons idered certain proof that Voldemort 
had split his soul." 
 
"Where?" asked Harry. "How?" 
 
"You handed it to me, Harry ," said Dumbledore. "The diary, Riddles 
diary, the one giving instructions on how to reopen the Chamber of Secrets." 
 
"I don't understand, sir," said Harry. 
 
"Well, although I did not see the Riddle who came out of the di-ary, what 
you described to me wa s a phenomenon I had neve r wit-nessed. A mere 
memory starting to act and think for itself? A mere memory, sapping the life out of the girl into whose hands it had fallen? No, something much more 
sinister had lived inside that book. ... a fragment of soul, I was almost sure of 
it. The diary had been a Horcrux. But this raised as many questions as it 
answered. What intrigued and alarmed me most was that that diary had been 
intended as a weapon as much as a safeguard." 
 
"1 still don't understand," said Harry. 
 
"Well, it worked as a Horcrux is supp osed to work — in other words, the 
fragment of soul concealed inside it was kept safe and had undoubtedly played its part in preventing the deat h of its owner. But there could be no 
doubt that Riddle really wanted that di ary read, wanted the piece of his soul 
to inhabit or possess some-body else, so  that Slytherin's monster would be 
unleashed again." 
 
"Well, he didn't want his hard work to be wasted," said  Harry. "He wanted 
people to know he was Slythe rin's heir, because he c ouldn't take credit at the 
time." 
 
"Quite correct," said Dumbledore, nodding. "But don't you see, Harry, 
that if he intended the diary to be passed to, or planted on, some future 
Hogwarts student, he was being rema rkably blase about that precious 
fragment of his soul concealed within  it. The point of a Horcrux is, as 
Professor Slughorn explained, to keep part of the self hidden and safe, not to 
fling it into somebody else's path and run the risk that they might destroy it — as indeed happened: That particular  fragment of soul is no more; you saw 
to that.  
The careless way in which Voldemort re garded this Horcrux seemed most 
ominous to me. It suggested that he mu st have made — or had been planning 
to make — more Horcruxes, so that the loss of his first would not be so 
detrimental. I did not wish to be-lieve  it, but nothing else seemed to make 
sense. Then you told me, two years late r, that on the night that Volde-mort 
returned to his body, he made a most illuminating and alarm-ing statement to 
his Death Eaters. ‘I who have gone furt her than anybody along the path that 
leads to immortality.’ Th at was what you told me he said. 'Further than 
anybody!' And I thought I knew what th at meant, though the Death Eaters 
did not. He was referring to his Horcru xes, Horcruxes in the plural, Harry, 
which I don’t believe any other wizard has ever had. Yet it fitted: Lord 
Voldomort has seemed to grow less human with the passing years, and the 
transformation he had undergone seemed to me to be only explainable if his 
soul was mutilated beyond the realms of wh at we might call 'usual evil' . . ." 
 
"So he's made himself impossible to kill by murdering other people?" said 
Harry. "Why couldn't he make a Sorcerer's Stone, or steal one, if he was so 
interested in immortality?" 
 
"Well, we know that he tried to do just that, five years ago," s;n«l 
Dumbledore. "But there are several reas ons why, I think, a Sorcerer's Stone 
would appeal less than Horcruxes to Lord Voldemort, 
 
"While the Elixir of Life does indeed extend life, it must lie drunk 
regularly, for all eternity, if the dri nker is to maintain the immortality. 
Therefore, Voldemort would be entirely dependant on the Elixir, and if it ran out, or was contaminated, or if the St one was stolen, he would die just like 
any other man. Voldemort likes to opera te alone, remember. I believe that he 
would have found the thought of be ing dependent, even on the Elixir, 
intolerable. Of course he was prepared to drink it if it would take him out of 
the horrible part-life to which he was condemned after attacking you, but 
only to regain a body. Thereafter, I am convinced, he intended to continue to 
rely on his Horcruxes. He would need nothing more, if only he could regain 
a human form. He was already im-mortal,  you see ... or as close to immortal 
as any man can be. But no w, Harry, armed with this information, the crucial 
memory you have succeeded in procuring for us, we are closer to the se-cret 
of finishing Lord Voldemort than a nyone has ever been before. You heard 
him, Harry: 'Wouldn't it be better, make you st ronger, to have your soul in 
more pieces . . . isn't seven the most powerfully magical number . . .' Isn't 
seven the most powerfully magical numb er. Yes, I think the idea of a seven-
part soul would greatly appeal to Lord Voldemort." 
 
"He made seven Horcruxes?" said Ha rry, horror-struck, while several of 
the portraits on the walls made simila r noises of shock mid outrage. "But 
they could be anywhere in the worl d — hidden — buried or invisible —" 
 
"I am glad to see you appreciate the magnitude of the problem," said 
Dumbledore calmly. "But firstly, no, Harry, not seven Hor-cruxes: six. The 
seventh part of his soul, however ma imed, resides inside  his regenerated 
body. That was the part of him that liv ed a spectral existence for so many 
years during his exile; without that, he has no self at all. That seventh piece 
of soul will be the last that anybody wi shing to kill Voldemort must attack 
— the piece that lives in his body."  
"But the six Horcruxes, then," said Harry, a little desperately, "how are we 
supposed to find them?" 
 
"You are forgetting . . . you have alr eady destroyed one of them. And I 
have destroyed another." 
 
"You have?" said Harry eagerly. 
 
"Yes indeed," said Dumbledore, a nd he raised his blackened, burned-
looking hand. "The ring, Harry. Marvol o's ring. And a ter-rible curse there 
was upon it too. Had it not been — forgive me the lack of seemly modesty 
— for my own prodigious skill, a nd for Professor Snape's timely action 
when I returned to Hogwarts, des-perate ly injured, I might not have lived to 
tell the tale. However, a withered hand does not seem an unreasonable 
exchange for a sev-enth of Voldem ort's soul. The ring is no longer a 
Horcrux." 
 
"But how did you find it?" 
 
"Well, as you now know, for many year s I have made it my business to 
discover as much as I can about Vold emort's past life. I have traveled 
widely, visiting those places he on ce knew. I stumbled across the ring 
hidden in the ruin of the Gaunt’s hous e. It seem that once Voldemort had 
succeeded in sealing a piece of  his soul in side it, he  did not want to wear it 
anymore. He hid it, protected by many powerful enchantments, in the shack 
where his ancestors had once lived (Morfin having been carted off to Azkaban, of course), ne ver guessing that I might one day take the trouble to 
visit the ruin, or that I might be keep ing an eye open for traces of magical 
concealment. 
 
"However, we should not congratul ate ourselves too heartily. You 
destroyed the diary and I the ring, but if we are right in our theory of a 
seven-part soul, four  Horcruxes remain." 
 
"And they could be anything?" said Ha rry. "They could be oh, in tin cans 
or, I dunno, empty potion bottles. . . ." 
 
"You are thinking of Portkeys, Harry, which must be ordinary objects, 
easy to overlook. But would Lord Vo ldemort use tin cans or old potion 
bottles to guard his own pr ecious soul? You are fo rgetting what I have 
showed you. Lord Voldemort liked to  collect trophies, and he preferred 
objects with a powerful magical histor y His pride, his belief in his own 
superiority, his determination to carve for himself a startling place in magical history; these things, suggest  to me that Voldemort would have 
chosen his Horcruxr with some care,  favoring objects worthy of the honor." 
 
"The diary wasn't that special." 
 
"The diary, as you have said yourself, was proof that he was the Hire of 
Slytherin. I am sure that Vold emort considered it of stu-pendous 
importance." 
 "So, the other Horcruxes?" said Ha rry. "Do you think you know what they 
are, sir?" 
 
"I can only guess," said Dumbledore. "For the reasons I have al-ready 
given, I believe that Lord Voldem ort would prefer objects that, in 
themselves, have a certain grandeur. I have therefore trawled back through 
Voldemort's past to see if I can fi nd evidence that such artifacts have 
disappeared around him." 
 
"The locket!" said Harry loudly, "Hufflepuff's cup!" 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore, smiling, "I would be prepared to bet — perhaps 
not my other hand — but a couple of fi ngers, that they be-came Horcruxes 
three and four. The remaining two, assu ming again that he created a total of 
six, are more of a problem, but I w ill hazard a guess that, having secured 
objects from Hufflepuff and Slytherin,  he set out to track down objects 
owned by Gryffindor or Ravenclaw. F our objects from the four founders 
would, I am sure, have exerted a powerful pull over Voldemort's 
imagination. I can-not answer for whether he ever manage d to find anything 
of Ravenclaw's. I am confident, how ever, that the only known relic of 
Gryffindor remains safe." 
 
Dumbledore pointed his blackened fingers to the wall behind him, where 
a ruby-encrusted sword reposed within a glass case. 
 "Do you think that's why he really wa nted to come back to Hogwarts, 
sir?" said Harry. "To try and find  something from one of the other 
founders?" 
 
"My thoughts precisely," said Dumbledor e. "But unfortunately, that does 
not advance us much further, for he was turned away, or so I believe, 
without the chance to search the school . I am forced to conclude that he 
never fulfilled his ambition of coll ecting four founders' objects. He 
definitely had two — he ma y have found three — that is the best we can do 
for now." 
 
"Even if he got something of Ravenclaw's  or of Gryffindor's, that leaves a 
sixth Horcrux," said Harry, counting on  his fingers. "Unless he’s got both?" 
 
"I don't think so," said Dumbledore.  "I think I know what the sixth 
Horcrux is. I wonder what you will say when I confess that I have been 
curious for a while about the beha vior of the snake, Nagini?' 
 
"The snake?" said Harry, startled. "You can use animals as Horcruxes?" 
 
"Well, it is inadvisable to do so," said Dumbledore, "b ecause to confide a 
part of your soul to something that can  think and move for itself is obviously 
a very risky business. However, if my calculations are correct, Voldemort 
was still at least one Horcrux short of his goal of six when he entered your 
parents' house with the inten-tion of ki lling you. He seems to have reserved 
the process of making Horcruxes for particularly significant deaths. You 
would certainly have been that. He believed that in killing you, he was destroying the danger the prophecy had outlined. He believed he was 
making himself invin-cible. I am sure th at he was intending to make his final 
Horcrux with your death. As we know, he failed. Afte r an interval of some 
years, however, he used Nagini to kill  an old Muggle man, and it might then 
have occurred to him to turn her into  his last Horcrux. She underlines the 
Slytherin connection, which enhances Lord Voldemorts mys-tique; I think 
he is perhaps as fond of her as he can  be of anything; he certainly likes to 
keep her close, and he se ems to have an un-usual am ount of control over her, 
even for a Parselmouth." 
 
"So," said Harry, "the diary's gone, th e ring's gone. The cup, the locket, 
and the snake are still intact, and you th ink there might be a Horcrux that 
was once Ravenclaw's or Gryffindor's?" 
 
"An admirably succinct and accurate summary, yes," said Dum-bledore, 
bowing his head. 
 
"So . . . are you still looking for them, si r? Is that where you've been going 
when you've been leaving the school?" 
 
"Correct," said Dumbledore. "I have been looking for a very long time. I 
think. . . perhaps ... I may be close to  finding an-other one. There are hopeful 
signs." 
 
"And if you do," said Harry quickly, "can I come with you and help get 
rid of it?" 
 Dumbledore looked at Harry very inte ntly for a moment before saying, 
"Yes, I think so." 
 
"I can?" said Harry, t horoughly taken aback. 
 
"Oh yes," said Dumbledore, smiling s lightly. "I think you have earned 
that right." 
 
Harry felt his heart lift. It was very  good not to hear words of caution and 
protection for once. The headmasters and head-mis tresses around the walls 
seemed less impressed by Dumbledore's decision; Harry saw a few of them 
shaking their heads and Phineas  Nigellus actually snorted. 
 
"Does Voldemort know when a Horcrux is  destroyed, sir? Can he feel it?" 
Harry asked, ignoring the portraits. 
 
"A very interesting question, Ha rry. I believe not. I believe that 
Voldemort is now so immersed in evil,  and these crucial parts of himself 
have been detached for so long, he doe s not feel as we do. Perhaps, at the 
point of death, he might be aware of his loss . . . but he was not aware, for 
instance, that the diary had been destr oyed until he forced the truth out of 
Lucius Malfoy. When Voldemort di scovered that the diary had been 
mutilated and robbed of all its powers, I am told that his anger was terrible 
to behold." 
 
"But I thought he meant Lucius Malfoy to smuggle it into Hogwarts?" 
 "Yes, he did, years ago, when he wa s sure he would be able to create 
more Horcruxes, but still Lucius was supposed to wait for Voldemorts say-
so, and he never received it, for Vold emort van-ished shor tly after giving 
him the diary. No doubt he thought th at Lucius would not dare do anything 
with the Horcrux other than guard it carefully, but he was counting too much 
upon Lucius’s fear of a master who had been gone for years and whom 
Lucius believed dead. Of course, Lucius did not know what the diary really was. I understand that Voldemort had told him the diary would cause the 
Chamber of Secrets to reopen because it was cleverly enchanted. Had Lucius 
known he held a portion of his mas-te rs soul in his hands, he would 
undoubtedly have treated it with more  reverence — but instead he went 
ahead and carried out the old plan fo r his own ends. By planting the diary 
upon Arthur Weasleys daughter, he hoped to  discredit Arthur and get rid of a 
highly incrim-inating magical object in one stroke. Ah, poor Lucius . . . what 
with Voldemorts fury about the fact that he threw away the Horcrux for his 
own gain, and the fiasco at the Ministry  last year, I would not be sur-prised 
if he is not secretly glad to be  safe in Azkaban at the moment." 
 
Harry sat in thought for a moment, then  asked, "So if all of his Horcruxes 
are destroyed, Voldemort couldbe killed?" 
 
"Yes, I think so," said Dumbledore. "Without his Horcruxes, Voldemort 
will be a mortal man with a maimed and diminished soul. Never forget, 
though, that while his soul may be da maged be-yond repair, his brain and his 
magical powers remain intact. It will ta ke uncommon skill a nd power to kill 
a wizard like Voldemort even  without his Horcruxes." 
 "But I haven't got uncommon skill and power," said Harry, be-fore he 
could stop himself. 
 
"Yes, you have," said Dumbledore fi rmly. "You have a power that 
Voldemort has never had. You can —" 
 
"I know!" said Harry impatiently. "I can  love!" It was only with difficulty 
that he stopped himself adding, "Big deal!" 
 
"Yes, Harry, you can love," said Du mbledore, who looked as though he 
knew perfectly well what Harry had just refrained from saying. "Which, 
given everything that has happened to you, is a great and remarkable thing. 
You are still too young to unders tand how unusual you are, Harry." 
 
"So, when the prophecy says that I' ll have 'power the Dark Lord knows 
not,' it just means — love?" aske d Harry, feeling a little let down. 
 
"Yes — just love," said Dumbledore. "But Harry, never forget that what 
the prophecy says is only significant because Voldemort made it so. I told you this at the end of last year. Voldem ort singled you out as the person who 
would be most dangerous to him — a nd in doing so, he ma de you the person 
who would be most dan-gerous to him!" 
 
"But it comes to the same —" 
 "No, it doesn't!" said Dumbledore, sounding impatient now. Pointing at 
Harry with his black, withered hand, he said, "You are setting too much 
store by the prophecy!" 
 
"But," spluttered Harry, "but you said the prophecy means —“ 
 
"If Voldemort had never heard of the prophecy, would it have been 
fulfilled? Would it have meant anythi ng? Of course not! Ho you think every 
prophecy in the Hall of Pro phecy has been fulfilled?" 
 
"But," said Harry, bewildered, "but last year, you said one of us would 
have to kill the other —" 
 
"Harry, Harry, only because Voldemort made a grave error, and acted on 
Professor Trelawney's words! If Voldem ort had never murdered your father, 
would he have imparted in you a furi ous desire for reve nge? Of course not! 
If he had not forced your mother to di e for you, would he have given you a 
magical protection he could not penetr ate? Of course not, Harry! Don't you 
see? Voldemort himself created his worst enemy, just as tyrants everywhere 
do! Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the people they oppress? All 
of them realize that, one day, amongst th eir many victims, there is sure to be 
one who rises against them and strike s back! Voldemort is no different! 
Always he was on the lookout for the one who would ch allenge him. He 
heard the prophecy and he leapt into ac-tion, with the result that he not only 
handpicked the man most likely to finish him, he handed him uniquely 
deadly weapons!" 
 "But —" 
 
"It is essential that you understand th is!" said Dumbledore, standing up 
and striding about the r oom, his glittering robes sw ooshing in his wake; 
Harry had never seen him so agitated. "By attempting to kill you, Voldemort 
himself singled out the remark-able pers on who sits here in front of me, and 
gave him the tools for the job! It is Voldemort's fault that you were able to 
see into his thoughts, his ambitions, that you even understand the snakelike 
language in which he gives orders, a nd yet, Harry, despite your privileged 
insight into Voldemort's world (which, in cidentally, is a gift any Death Eater 
would kill to have), you ha ve never been se-duced by the Dark Arts, never, 
even for a second, shown the slight-est desire to become one of Voldemort's 
followers!" 
 
"Of course I haven't!" said Harry indignantly. "He killed my mum and 
dad!" 
 
"You are protected, in short, by your ability to love!" said Dum-bledore 
loudly. "The only protection that can possibly work against the lure of power 
like Voldemort's! In spite of all th e temptation you have endured, all the 
suffering, you remain pure of heart, just  as pure as you were at the age of 
eleven, when you stared in to a mir-ror that reflected your heart's desire, and 
it showed you only the way to thwart Lo rd Voldemort, and not immortality 
or riches. Harry, have you any idea how few wizards could have seen what 
you saw in that mirror? Voldemort should have known then what he was 
dealing with, but he did not! But he kno ws it now. You have flitted into Lord 
Voldemort's mind without damage to  yourself, but he cannot possess you with-out enduring mortal agony, as he  discovered in the Ministry. I do not 
think he understands why, Harry, but then , he was in such a hurry to mutilate 
his own soul, he never paused to un derstand the incomparable power of a 
soul that is untarnished and whole." 
 
"But, sir," said Harry, making valiant efforts not to sound argu-mentative, 
"it all comes to the same thing, doesn't it?  I've got to try and kill him, or —" 
 
"Got to?" said Dumbledore. "Of course you've got to! But not because of 
the prophecy! Because you, yourself, will never rest until you've tried! We 
both know it! Imagine, please, just for a moment, 
 
that you had never heard that pr ophecy! How would you feel about 
Voldemort now? Think!" 
 
Harry watched Dumbledore striding up  and down in front ol him, and 
thought. He thought of his mother, his father, and Sinus. He thought of 
Cedric Diggory. He thought of all the terrible deeds he knew Lord 
Voldemort had done. A flame seemed to leap inside his chest, searing his 
throat. 
 
"I'd want him finished," said Harry quietly. "And I'd want to do it." 
 
"Of course you would!" cried Dumble dore. "You see, the prophecy does 
not mean you have to do anything! But the prophecy caused Lord Voldemort 
to mark you as his equal. ... In other words, you are free to choose your way, 
quite free to turn your back on the pr ophecy! But Voldemort continues to set store by the prophecy. He will contin ue to hunt you . . . which makes it 
certain, really, that —" 
 
"That one of us is going to end up killing the other," said Harry. "Yes." 
 
But he understood at last what Dumbledo re had been trying to tell him. It 
was, he thought, the diffe rence between being dragged into the arena to face 
a battle to the death and walking into the arena with your head held high. 
Some people, perhaps, would say that  there was little to choose between the 
two ways, but Dumble-dore knew — and so  do I, thought Harry, with a rush 
of fierce pride, and so did my parents — that there was all the difference in 
the world. 
CHAPTER 24
 
Exhausted but delighted with his night's work, Harry told Ron and 
Hermione everything that had happe ned during next morning's Charms 
lesson (having first cast the Muffliato spell upon those nearest them). They 
were both satisfyingly impressed by th e way he had wheedled the memory 
out of Slughorn and positively awed when  he told them about Voldemort's 
Horcruxes and Dumbledore's promise to  take Harry along, should he find 
another one. 
 
"Wow," said Ron, when Harry had finally finished telling them 
everything; Ron was waving his wand very  vaguely in the direction of the 
ceiling without paying the slightest bit of attention to what he was doing. 
"Wow. You're actually going to go with Dumbledore . . . and try and destroy 
. . . wow." 
 
"Ron, you're making it snow," said He rmione patiently, grabbing his wrist 
and redirecting his wand away from the ceiling from which, sure enough, 
large white flakes had started to fall.  Lavender Brown, Harry noticed, glared 
at Hermione from a neighboring table through very red ey es, and Hermione 
immediately let go of Rons arm. 
 
"Oh yeah," said Ron, looking down at  his shoulders in vague surprise. 
"Sorry... looks like we've all got horrible dandruff now. ..." 
 
He brushed some of the fake snow off Hermiones shoulder Lavender 
burst into tears. Ron looked immensel y guilty and turned his back on her.  
"We split up," he told Harry out of the corner of his mouth, "Last night. 
When she saw me coming out of the dormitory with Hermione. Obviously 
she couldn't see you, so she thought it had just been the two of us." 
 
"Ah," said Harry. "Well — you don't mind it's over, do you?", "No," Ron 
admitted. "It was pretty bad while she was yelling, but at least I didn't have 
to finish it." 
 
"Coward," said Hermione, though she looked amused. "Well, it was a bad 
night for romance all around. Ginny and Dean split up too, Harry." 
 
Harry thought there was a rather knowin g look in her eye as she told him 
that, but she could not possibly know that his insides were suddenly dancing 
the conga. Keeping his face as immobile and his voice as indifferent as he 
could, he asked, "How come?" 
 
"Oh, something really silly . . . She sa id he was always tr ying to help her 
through the portrait hole, like she couldn' t climb in herself . . . but they've 
been a bit rocky for ages." 
 
Harry glanced over at Dean on the other side of the classroom. He 
certainly looked unhappy. 
 
"Of course, this puts you in a bit of a dilemma, doesn't it?" said Hermione. 
 
"What d'you mean?" said Harry quickly.  
"The Quidditch team," said Hermione . "If Ginnyand Dean aren't speaking 
. . ." 
 
"Oh — oh yeah," said Harry. 
 
"Flitwick," said Ron in a warning tone . The tiny little Charms master was 
bobbing his way toward them, and He rmione was the only one who had 
managed to turn vinegar into wine; he r glass flask was full of deep crimson 
liquid, whereas the contents of Harry 's and Ron's were still murky brown. 
 
"Now, now, boys," squeaked Professor Flitwick reproachfully. "A little 
less talk, a little more action . . . Let me see you try. . . ." 
 
Together they raised their wands, c oncentrating with all their might, and 
pointed them at their flasks. Harry's vinegar turned to ice; Rons flask 
exploded. 
 
"Yes ... for homework," said Professor Flitwick, re emerging from under 
the table and pulling shards of glass out  of the top of his hat, "practice." 
 
They had one of their rare joint fr ee periods after Charms and walked 
back to the common room togeth er. Ron seemed to be positively 
lighthearted about the end of his rela tionship with Lavende r, and Hermione 
seemed cheery too, though when aske d what she was grinning about she 
simply said, "It's a nice day." Neither of  them seemed to have noticed that a 
fierce battle was raging inside Harry's brain:  
  
 
She's Rons sister. 
 
But she's ditched Dean! 
 
She's still Rons sister. 
 
I'm his best mate! 
 
That'll make it worse. 
 
If I talked to him first — 
 
He'd hit you. 
 
What if I don't care? 
 
He's your best mate! 
 
  
 
Harry barely noticed that they were climbing through the portrait hole into 
the sunny common room, and only vague ly registered the small group of 
seventh years clustered together there,  until Hermione cried, "Katie! You're 
back! Are you okay?"  
Harry stared: It was indeed Katie Bell, looking completely healthy and 
surrounded by her jubilant friends. 
 
"I'm really well!" she said happily. "They let me out of St. Mungos on 
Monday, I had a couple of days at home with Mum and Dad and then came 
back here this morning. Leanne was just telling me about McLaggen and the 
last match, Harry. . . ." 
 
"Yeah," said Harry, "well, now you're back and Ron's fit, we'll have a 
decent chance of thrashing Ravenclaw, which means we could still be in the 
running for the Cup. Listen, Katie . . ." 
 
He had to put the question to her at once; his curiosity even drove Ginny 
temporarily from his brain. He droppe d his voice as Katie's friends started 
gathering up their things; apparently th ey were late for Transfiguration. 
 
". . . that necklace . . . can you remember w ho gave it to you now?" 
 
"No," said Katie, shaking her head ru efully. "Everyone's been asking me, 
but I haven't got a clue. The last thing I remember was walking into the 
ladies' in the Three Broomsticks." 
 
"You definitely went into the bathroom, then?" said Hermione. 
 
"Well, I know I pushed open the door," said Katie, "so I suppose whoever 
Imperiused me was standing just behind  it. After that, my  memory's a blank until about two weeks ago in St. Mungo 's. Listen, I'd better go, I wouldn't 
put it past McGonagall to give me lines even if it is my first day back. ..." 
 
She caught up her bag and books and hu rried after her friends, leaving 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione to sit dow n at a window table and ponder what 
she had told them. 
 
"So it must have been a girl or a woman who gave Katie the necklace," 
said Hermione, "to be in the ladies' bathroom." 
 
"Or someone who looked like a girl  or a woman," said Harry. "Don't 
forget, there was a cauldron full of Polyjuice Potion at Hog-warts. We know 
some of it got stolen. . . ." 
 
In his mind's eye, he watched a parade  of Crabbes and Goyles prance past, 
all transformed into girls. 
 
"I think I'm going to take another swig  of Felix," said Harry, "and have a 
go at the Room of Requirement again." 
 
"That would be a complete waste of po tion," said Hermione  flatly, putting 
down the copy of Spellmans Syllabary she had just taken out of her bag. 
"Luck can only get you so far, Harry . The situation with Slughorn was 
different; you always had the ability to persuade him, you just needed to 
tweak the circumstances a bit. Luck  isn't enough to get you through a 
powerful enchantment, though. Don't go wasting the rest of that potion! You'll need all the luck you can get if Dumbledore takes you along with him 
..." She dropped her voice to a whisper. 
 
"Couldn't we make some more?" R on asked Harry, ignoring Hermione. 
"It'd be great to have a stock of it. ... Have a look in the book... " 
 
Harry pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of his bap, and 
looked up Felix Felicis. 
 
"Blimey, its seriously complicated," he  said, running an eye down the list 
of ingredients. "And it ta kes six months.,. You've got to let it stew. ..." 
 
"Typical," said Ron. 
 
Harry was about to put his book away again when he noti ced the corner of 
a page folded down; turning to it, he  saw the Sectum-sem pra spell, captioned 
"For Enemies," that he had marked a few weeks previously. He had still not 
found out what it did, mainly because  he did not want to test it around 
Hermione, but he was considering tr ying it out on McLaggen next time he 
came up behind him unawares. 
 
The only person who was not particular ly pleased to see Katie Bell back 
at school was Dean Thomas, because he would no longer be required to fill 
her place as Chaser. He took the blow stoically enough when Harry told him, 
merely grunting and shrugging, but Ha rry had the distinct feeling as he 
walked away that Dean and Seamus  were muttering mutinously behind his 
back.  
The following fortnight saw the best  Quidditch practices Harry had 
known as Captain. His team was so pleased to be rid of McLaggen, so glad 
to have Katie back at last, that  they were flying extremely well. 
 
Ginny did not seem at all upset a bout the breakup with Dean; on the 
contrary, she was the life and soul of the team. Her imitations of Ron 
anxiously bobbing up and down in front of  the goal posts as the Quaffle sped 
toward him, or of Harry bellowing orders at McLaggen before being 
knocked out cold, kept them all highl y amused. Harry, laughing with the 
others, was glad to have an innocent reason to look at Ginny; he had received several more Bludger injuries during practice because he had not 
been keeping his eyes on the Snitch. 
 
The battle still raged inside his head: Ginny or Ron? Sometimes he 
thought that the post-Lavender Ron mi ght not mind too much if he asked 
Ginny out, but then he remembered Ron's expression when he had seen her 
kissing Dean, and was sure that Ron would consider it base treachery if 
Harry so much as held her hand. . . . 
 
Yet Harry could not help himself talk ing to Ginny, laughing with her, 
walking back from practice with her; however much his conscience ached, 
he found himself wondering how best to get her on her own.  It would have 
been ideal if Slughorn had given anothe r of his little parties, for Ron would 
not be around — but unfortunately, Slugh orn seemed to have given them up. 
Once or twice Harry considered asking for Hermione's help, but he did not 
think he could stand seeing the smug lo ok on her face; he thought he caught it sometimes when Hermione spotted him staring at Ginny or laughing at her 
jokes. And to complicate matters, he ha d the nagging worry that if he didn't 
do it, somebody else was sure to ask Ginny out soon: He and Ron were at least agreed on the fact that she was too popular for her own good. 
 
All in all, the temptation to take  another gulp of Felix Felicis was 
becoming stronger by the day, for surely  this was a case for, as Hermione 
put it, "tweaking the circumstances"? The balmy days slid gently through 
May, and Ron seemed to be there at Harry's shoulder every time he saw Ginny. Harry found himself longing fo r a stroke of luck that would 
somehow cause Ron to realize that nothi ng would make him happier than his 
best friend and his sister falling for each other and to leave them alone 
together for longer than a few seconds . There seemed no chance of either 
while the final Quidditch game of the season was looming; Ron wanted to 
talk tactics with Harry all the time and had little thought for anything else. 
 
Ron was not unique in this respect; interest in the Gryffindor-Ravenclaw 
game was running extremely high th roughout the school, for the match 
would decide the Championship, whic h was still wide open. If Gryffindor 
beat Ravenclaw by a margin of three hundr ed points (a tall  order, and yet 
Harry had never known his team to fl y better) then they would win the 
Championship. If they won by less than three hundred points, they would 
come second to Ravenclaw; if they lo st by a hundred points they would be 
third behind Hufflepuff and if they lost  by more than a hundred, they would 
be in fourth place and nobody, Harry  thought, would ever, ever let him 
forget that it had been he who had capta ined Gryffindor to their first bottom-
of-the-table defeat in two centuries.  
The run-up to this crucial match ha d all the usual features: members of 
rival Houses attempting to intimidat e opposing teams in the corridors; 
unpleasant chants about individual play ers being rehearsed loudly as they 
passed; the team members themselves either swaggering around enjoying all 
the attention or else dashing into bathrooms between classes to throw up. 
Somehow, the game had become inextr icably linked in Harry's mind with 
success or failure in his plans for Ginny.  He could not help feeling that if 
they won by more than three hundred po ints, the scenes of euphoria and a 
nice loud after-match party might be just as good as a hearty swig of Felix Felicis. 
 
In the midst of all his preoccupations, Harry had not forgotten his other 
ambition: finding out what Malfoy was up  to in the Room of Requirement. 
He was still checking the Marauder's Ma p, and as he was unable to locate 
Malfoy on it, deduced that Malfoy was still spending plenty of time within 
the room. Although Harry was losing hop e that he would ever succeed in 
getting inside the Room of Requirement, he attempted it whenever he was in 
the vicinity, but no matter how he rewo rded his request, the wall remained 
firmly doorless. 
 
A few days before the match against Ravenclaw, Harry found himself 
walking down to dinner alone from th e common room, Ron having rushed 
off into a nearby bathroom to throw up yet again, and Hermione having 
dashed off to see Professor Vector about a mistake she thought she might 
have made in her last Ar ithmancy essay. More out of habit than anything, 
Harry made his usual detour along the seventh-floor corridor, checking the Marauder's Map as he went. For a moment he could not find Malfoy 
anywhere and assume d he must indeed be inside the Room of Requirement 
again, but then he saw Malfoy's ti ny, labeled dot standing in a boys' 
bathroom on the floor below, accompanie d, not by Crabbe or Goyle, but by 
Moaning Myrtle. 
 
Harry only stopped staring at this unlikely coupling when he walked right 
into a suit of armor. The loud crash br ought him out of his reverie; hurrying 
from the scene lest Filch turn up, he dashed down the marble staircase and 
along the passageway below. Outside the bathroom, he pressed his ear 
against the door. He could not hear an ything. He very quietly pushed the 
door open. 
 
Draco Malfoy was standing with his back to the door, his hands clutching 
either side of the sink, his white-blond head bowed. 
 
"Don't," crooned Moaning Myrtle's voice from one of the cubicles. 
"Don't. . . tell me what's wr ong ... I can help you. . . ." 
 
"No one can help me," sa id Malfoy. His whole body was shaking. "I can't 
do it. ... I can't. ... It won't work . . . and unless 1 do it soon ... he says he'll 
kill me. ..." 
 
And Harry realized, with a shock so huge it seemed to root him to the 
spot, that Malfoy was crying — actually  crying — tears streaming down his 
pale face into the grimy basin. Malf oy gasped and gulped and then, with a great shudder, looked up into flu-crack ed mirror and saw Harry staring at 
him over his shoulder. 
 
Malfoy wheeled around, drawing his wand. Instinctively, Harry pulled out 
his own. Malfoy's hex mi ssed Harry by inches, shattering the lamp on the 
wall beside him; Harry threw himsel f sideways, thought Levicorpus! and 
flicked his wand, but Malfoy blocke d the jinx and raised his wand for 
another — 
 
"No! No! Stop it!" squealed Moani ng Myrtle, her voice echoing loudly 
around the tiled room. "Stop! STOP!" 
 
There was a loud bang and the bi n behind Harry exploded; Harry 
attempted a Leg-Locker Curse that b ackfired off the wall be-hind Malfoy's 
ear and smashed the cistern beneath Mo aning Myr-tle, who screamed loudly; 
water poured everywhere and Harry sli pped as Malfoy, his face contorted, 
cried, "Cruci —" 
 
"SECTUMSEMPRA!" bellowed Harry from the floor, waving his wand 
wildly. 
 
Blood spurted from Malfoy's face and chest as though he had been 
slashed with an invisible sword. He staggered backward and collapsed onto 
the waterlogged floor with a great splash, his wand falling from his limp 
right hand. 
 
"No —" gasped Harry.  
Slipping and staggering, Harry got to his feet and plunged toward Malfoy, 
whose face was now shining scarlet, his white hands scrabbling at his blood-
soaked chest. 
 
"No — I didn't —" 
 
Harry did not know what he was saying; he fell to his knees beside 
Malfoy, who was shaking uncontrollab ly in a pool of his own blood. 
Moaning Myrtle let out a deafeni ng scream: "MURDER! MURDER IN 
THE BATHROOM! MURDER!" 
 
The door banged open behind Harry an d he looked up, terrified: Snape 
had burst into the room, his face livid . Pushing Harry roughly aside, he knelt 
over Malfoy, drew his wand, and traced it over the deep wounds Harry's 
curse had made, muttering an incantati on that sounded almost like song. The 
flow of blood seemed to ease; Snape wiped the residue from Malfoy's face 
and repeated his spell. Now th e wounds seemed to be knitting. 
 
Harry was still watching, horrified by what he ha d done, barely aware that 
he too was soaked in bl ood and water. Moaning My rtle was still sobbing and 
wailing overhead. When Snape had perfo rmed his countercurse for the third 
time, he half-lifted Malfoy into a standing position. 
 
"You need the hospital wing. There may be a certain amount of scarring, 
but if you take dittany immediately we might avoid even that.. . . Come...." 
 He supported Malfoy across the bathroom, turning at the door to say in a 
voice of cold fury, "And you, Potte r . . . You wait here for me." 
 
It did not occur to Harry for a second to disobey. He stood up slowly, 
shaking, and looked down at the wet floor. There were bl oodstains floating 
like crimson flowers across its surface. He  could not even find it in himself 
to tell Moaning Myrtle to be quiet, as she continued to wail and sob with 
increasingly evident enjoyment. 
 
Snape returned ten minutes later. He stepped into the bathroom and closed 
the door behind him. 
 
"Go," he said to Myrtle, and she sw ooped back into her toilet at once, 
leaving a ringing silence behind her. 
 
"I didn't mean it to happen," said Ha rry at once. His voice echoed in the 
cold, watery space. "I didn't know what that spell did." 
 
But Snape ignored this. "Apparently I underestimated you, Potter," he 
said quietly. "Who would have thought  you knew such Dark Magic? Who 
taught you that spell?" 
 
"I — read about it somewhere." 
 
"Where?" 
 "It was — a library book," Harry invented  wildly. "I can't remember what 
it was call —" 
 
"Liar," said Snape. Harry's throat went dry. He knew what Snape was 
going to do and he had never been able to prevent it. ... 
 
The bathroom seemed to shimmer before his eyes; he struggled to block 
out all thought, but try as he might , the Half-Blood Prince's copy of 
Advanced Potion-Making swam hazily  to the forefront of his mind. 
 
And then he was staring at Snape ag ain, in the midst of this wrecked, 
soaked bathroom. He stared into Snape's black eyes, hoping against hope 
that Snape had not seen what he feared, but — 
 
"Bring me your schoolbag," said Sn ape softly, "and all of your 
schoolbooks. All of them. Bri ng them to me here. Now!" 
 
There was no point arguing. Harry turned at once and splashed 
 
out of the bathroom. Once in the co rridor, he broke into a run toward 
Gryffindor Tower. Most pe ople were walking the other way; they gaped at 
him, drenched in water and blood, but  he answered none of the questions 
fired at him as he ran past. 
 
He felt stunned; it was as though a beloved pet had turned suddenly 
savage; what had the Prince been thinking to copy such a spell into his 
book? And what would happen when Sn ape saw it? Would he tell Slughorn — Harry's stomach churned — how Ha rry had been achieving such good 
results in Potions all year? Would he confiscate or destroy the book that had 
taught Harry so much . . . the book that had become a kind of guide and 
friend? Harry could not let it ha ppen. . . . He could not. . . 
 
"Where've you — ? Why are you soaking — ? Is that blood." Ron was 
standing at the top of the stairs, looking bewildered at , the sight of Harry. 
 
"I need your book," Harry panted. "Your  Potions book. Quick . . . give it 
to me . . ." 
 
"But what about the Half-Blood —" 
 
"I'll explain later!" 
 
Ron pulled his copy of Advanced Potion-Making out of his bag and 
handed it over; Harry sprinted off past  him and back to the common room. 
Here, he seized his schoolbag, ignoring the amazed looks of several people who had already finished their dinner, threw himself back out of the portrait 
hole, and hurtled off along the seventh-floor corridor. 
 
He skidded to a halt beside the tapest ry of dancing trolls, closed his eyes, 
and began to walk. 
 
I need a place to hide my book. . . . I need a place to hide my book. . . . I 
need a place to hide my book. ... 
 Three times he walked up and down in front of the stretch of blank wall. 
When he opened his eyes, there it was at last: the door to the Room of 
Requirement. Harry wrenched it open, flung him self inside, and slammed it 
shut. 
 
He gasped. Despite his haste, his panic, his fear of what awaited him back 
in the bathroom, he could not help but be overawed by what he was looking 
at. He was standing in a room the si ze of a large cathedral, whose high 
windows were sending shafts  of light down upon what looked like a city 
with towering walls, built of what Ha rry knew must be objects hidden by 
generations of Hogwarts inhabitant s. There were alleyways and roads 
bordered by tetering piles of broken and damaged fu rniture, stowed away, 
perhaps, to hide the evid ence of mishandled magic,  or else hidden by castle-
proud house-elves. There were thousan ds and thousands of books, no doubt 
banned or graffitied or stolen. Ther e were winged catapults and Fanged 
Frisbees, some still with enough life in them to hover halfheartedly over the 
mountains of other forbidden items; th ere were chipped bo ttles of congealed 
potions, hats, jewels, cloaks; there we re what looked like dragon eggshells, 
corked bottles whose contents still shimmered evilly, several rusting swords, 
and a heavy, bloodstained axe. 
 
Harry hurried forward into one of the many alleyways between all this 
hidden treasure. He turned right past an enormous stuffed troll, ran on a short way, took a left at the broken Vanishing Cabinet in which Montague 
had got lost the previous year, finally  pausing beside a large cupboard that 
seemed to have had acid thrown at its blistered surface. He opened one of the cupboard's creaking doors: It had al ready been used as a hiding place for something in a cage that had long since died; its skeleton had five legs. He 
stuffed the Half-Blood Princes book be hind the cage and slammed the door. 
He paused for a moment, his heart th umping horribly, gazing around at all 
the clutter. . . . Would he be able to fi nd this spot again amidst all this junk? 
Seizing the chipped bust of an ugly ol d warlock from on top of a nearby 
crate, he stood it on top of the c upboard where the book was now hidden, 
perched a dusty old wig and a tarnished tiara on the statues head to make it 
more distinctive, then sprinted back through the alleyways of hidden junk as 
fast as he could go, back to the door , back out onto the corridor, where he 
slammed the door behind him, and it turned at once back into stone. 
 
Harry ran flat-out toward the ba throom on the floor below, cramming 
Ron's copy of Advanced Po tion-Making into his bag as he did so. A minute 
later, he was back in front of Snape,  who held out his hand wordlessly for 
Harry's schoolbag. Harry hande d it over, panting, a searing pain in his chest, 
and waited. 
 
One by one, Snape extracted Harrys books and examined them., Finally, 
the only book left was the Potions book,  which he looked at very carefully 
before speaking. 
 
"This is your copy of Advanced Potion-Making, is it, Potter?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry, still breathing hard. 
 
"You're quite sure of that, are you, Potter?" 
 "Yes," said Harry, with a touch more defiance. 
 
"This is the copy of Advanced Potion-Making that you purchased from 
Flourish and Blotts?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry firmly. 
 
"Then why," asked Snape, "does it ha ve the name 'Roonil Wazlib' written 
inside the front cover?" 
 
Harrys heart missed a beat. "That' s my nickname," he said. ' 
 
"Your nickname," repeated Snape. ; "Y eah . . . that's what my friends call 
me," said Harry. 
 
"I understand what a nickname is," said  Snape. The cold, black eyes were 
boring once more into Harry's; he trie d not to look into them. Close your 
mind. . . . Close your mind. . . . Bu t he had never learned how to do it 
properly. . . . 
 
"Do you know what I think, Potter?" sa id Snape, very quietly. "I think 
that you are a liar and a cheat and that you deserve detention with me every 
Saturday until the end of term. "What do you think, Potter?" 
 
"I — I don't agree, sir," said Harry, still refusing to look into Snape's eyes. 
 "Well, we shall see how you feel after your detentions," said Snape. "Ten 
o'clock Saturday morning, Potter. My office." 
 
"But sir . . ." said Harry, looking up desperately. "Quidditch . . . the last 
match of the ..." 
 
"Ten o'clock," whispered Snape, with a smile that showed his yellow 
teeth. "Poor Gryffindor. . . four th place this year, I fear ..." 
 
And he left the bathroom without a nother word, leaving Harry to stare 
into the cracked mirror, feeling sicker, he  was sure, than Ron had ever felt in 
his life. 
 
"I won't say 'I told you so,'" said Hermione, an hour later in the common 
room. 
 
"Leave it, Hermione,"  said Ron angrily. 
 
Harry had never made it to dinner; he had no appetite  at all. He had just 
finished telling Ron, Hermione, and Ginny what had happened, not that 
there seemed to have been much need. The news had traveled very fast: 
Apparently Moaning Myrtle  had taken it upon hersel f to pop up in every 
bathroom in the castle to tell the stor y; Malfoy had already been visited in 
the hospital wing by Pansy Parkinson,  who had lost no time in vilifying 
Harry far and wide, and Snape had told the staff precisely what had 
happened. Harry had already been calle d out of the common room to endure 
fifteen highly unpleasant minutes in the company of Professor McGonagall, who had told him he was lucky not to  have been expelled and that she 
supported wholeheartedly Snape's punishment of detention every Saturday 
until the end of term. 
 
"I told you there was something wrong with that Prince person," 
Hermione said, evidently unable to stop herself. "And I was right, wasn't I." 
 
"No, I don't think you were,"  said Harry stubbornly. 
 
He was having a bad enough time without Hermione lecturing him; the 
looks on the Gryffindor team's faces wh en he had told them he would not be 
able to play on Saturday had been the worst punishment of all. He could feel 
Ginny's eyes on him now but did not meet them; he did not want to see 
disappointment or anger there. He ha d just told her that she would be 
playing Seeker on Saturday and that De an would be rejoining the team as 
Chaser in her place. Perhaps, if th ey won, Ginny and Dean would make up 
during the post-match euphoria. . . . The thought went through Harry like an 
icy knife. . . . 
 
"Harry," said Hermione, "how can you still stick up for that book when 
that spell —" 
 
"Will you stop harping on about the book!" snapped Harry. "The Prince 
only copied it out! It's not like he was advising anyone to use it! For all we 
know, he was making a note of something that had been used against him!" 
 
"I don't believe this," said Hermione. "You're actually defending—  
"I'm not defending what I did!" said Harry quickly. "I wish 1 ; hadn't done 
it, and not just because I've got about a dozen detentions. You know I 
wouldn't've used a spell like that, not  even on Malfoy, but you can't blame 
the Prince, he hadn't written 'try this out, it's really good' — he was just 
making notes for himself, wasn't he, not for anyone else. . . ." 
 
"Are you telling me," said Hermione, "t hat you're going to go back — ?" 
 
"And get the book? Yeah, I am," said Harry forcefully. "Listen, without 
the Prince I'd never have won the Felix  Felicis. I'd never have known how to 
save Ron from poisoning,  I'd never have —" 
 
"— got a reputation for Potions brilliance you don't deserve," said 
Hermione nastily. 
 
"Give it a rest, Hermione!" said Gi nny, and Harry was so amazed, so 
grateful, he looked up. "By the sound of it, Malfoy was trying to use an 
Unforgivable Curse, you should be gl ad Harry had something good up his 
sleeve!" 
 
"Well, of course I'm glad Harry wasn 't cursed!" said Hermione, clearly 
stung. "But you can't call that Sectum sempra spell good, Ginny, look where 
it's landed him! And I'd have thought, seeing what this has done to your 
chances in the match —" 
 "Oh, don't start acting as though y ou understand Quidditch," snapped 
Ginny, "you'll only em barrass yourself." 
 
Harry and Ron stared: Hermione and Ginny, who had always got on 
together very well, were now sitting with their arms folded, glaring in 
opposite directions. Ron looked nervously at Harry, then snatched up a book 
at random and hid behind it. Harry, however, 
 
little though he knew he deserved it,  felt unbelievably cheerful all of a 
sudden, even though none of them spoke again for the rest of the evening. 
 
His lightheartedness was short-lived. There were Slytherin taunts to be 
endured next day, not to mention mu ch anger from fellow Gryffindors, who 
were most unhappy that their Captain had got himself banned from the final 
match of the season. By Saturday morning, whatever he might have told 
Hermione, Harry would have  gladly exchanged all the Felix Felicis in the 
world to be walking down to the Quidditch pitch with Ron, Ginny, and the 
others. It was almost unbearable to turn away from the mass of students 
streaming out into the sunshine, all of them wearing rose ttes and hats and 
brandishing banners and scarves, to descend the stone steps into the 
dungeons and walk until the distant sounds of the crowd were quite 
obliterated, knowing that he would not be able to hear a word of 
commentary or a cheer or groan. 
 
"Ah, Potter," said Snape, when  Harry had knocked on his door and 
entered the unpleasantly familiar office th at Snape, despite teaching floors 
above now, had not vacated;  it was as dimly lit as ever and the same slimy dead objects were suspended in co lored potions all around the walls. 
Ominously, there were many cob- webbed boxes piled on a table where 
Harry was clearly supposed to sit; they  had an aura of tedious, hard, and 
pointless work about them. 
 
"Mr. Filch has been looking for someone to clear out these old files," said 
Snape softly. "They are the records of  other Hogwarts wrongdoers and their 
punishments. Where the ink has grown faint, or the cards have suffered 
damage from mice, we would like you to copy out the crimes and 
punishments afresh and, ma king sure that they are in alphabetical order, 
replace them in the boxes.  You will not use magic." 
 
"Right, Professor," said Harry, with as  much contempt as he could put 
into the last three syllables. 
 
"I thought you could start," said Sn ape, a malicious smile on his lips, 
"with boxes one thousand and twelve to  one thousand and fifty-six. You will 
find some familiar names in there, wh ich should add interest to the task. 
Here, you see . . ." 
 
He pulled out a card from one of th e topmost boxes with a flourish and 
read, "James Potter and Sirius Black.  Apprehended using an illegal hex upon 
Bertram Aubrey. Aubreys head twice normal size. Double detention." Snape 
sneered. "It must be such a comforti ng thing that, though they are gone, a 
record of their great achievements remains." 
 Harry felt the familiar boiling sensati on in the pit of his stomach. Biting 
his tongue to prevent himself retaliating,  he sat down in front of the boxes 
and pulled one toward him. 
 
It was, as Harry had anticipated, useless, boring work, punctuated (as 
Snape had clearly planned) with the regul ar jolt in the stomach that meant he 
had just read his father or Sirius's na mes, usually coupled together in various 
petty misdeeds, occasionally accomp anied by those of Remus Lupin and 
Peter Pettigrew. And while he copied out all their various offenses and 
punishments, he wondered what wa s going on outside, where the match 
would have just started . . . Gin ny playing Seeker against Cho . . . 
 
Harry glanced again and again at the large clock ticking on the wall. It 
seemed to be moving half as fast as  a regular clock; perhaps Snape had 
bewitched it to go extra slowly? He coul d not have been here for only half 
an hour ... an hour ... an hour and a half. . . . 
 
Harry's stomach started rumbling when the clock showed half past twelve. 
Snape, who had not spoken at all sin ce setting Harry his task, finally looked 
up at ten past one. 
 
"I think that will do," he said coldly. "Mark the place you have reached. 
You will continue at ten o'cloc k next Saturday." Yes, sir. 
 
Harry stuffed a bent card into the box at random and hurried out of the 
door before Snape could change his mind, racing back up the stone steps, straining his ears to hear a sound from the pitch, but all was quiet. ... It was 
over, then. . . . 
 
He hesitated outside the crowded Gr eat Hall, then ran up the marble 
staircase; whether Gryffindor had won or lost, the team usually celebrated or 
commiserated in their own common room. 
 
"Quid agis?" he said tentatively to the Fat Lady, wondering what he 
would find inside. 
 
Her expression was unreadable as  she replied, "You'll see." 
 
And she swung forward. 
 
A roar of celebration erupted from th e hole behind her. Harry gaped as 
people began to scream at the sight of him; several hands pulled him into the 
room. 
 
"We won!" yelled Ron, bounding into sight and brandishing the silver 
Cup at Harry. "We won! Four hundred a nd fifty to a hundred and forty! We 
won!" 
 
Harry looked around; there was Gi nny running toward him; she had a 
hard, blazing look in her face as  she threw her arms around him. And 
without thinking, without planning it, without worrying about the fact that 
fifty people were watc hing, Harry kissed her. 
 After several long moments — or it might have been half an hour — or 
possibly several sunlit days  — they broke apart. The room had gone very 
quiet. Then several people wolf-whis tled and there was an outbreak of 
nervous giggling. Harry looked over th e top of Ginny's head to see Dean 
Thomas holding a shattered glass in his hand, and Romilda Vane looking as 
though she might throw something. He rmione was beaming, but Harry's 
eyes sought Ron. At last he found him, still clutching the Cup and wearing 
an expression appropriate to havi ng been clubbed over the head. For a 
fraction of a second they looked at each other, then Ron gave a tiny jerk of 
the head that Harry understood  to mean, Well—if you must. 
 
The creature in his chest roaring in triumph, he grinned down at Ginny 
and gestured wordlessly out of the portr ait hole. A long walk in the grounds 
seemed indicated, during which — if they had time — they might discuss 
the match. 
CHAPTER 25
 
The fact that Harry Potter was going out with Ginny Weasley seemed to 
interest a great number of people, mo st of them girls, yet Harry found 
himself newly and happily impervious to gossip over the next few weeks. 
After all, it made a very nice change to  be talked about because of something 
that was making him happier than he co uld remember being for a very long 
time, rather than because he had been  involved in hor-rific scenes of Dark 
magic. 
 
'You'd think people had better things to  gossip about,' said Ginny, as she 
sat on the common-room floor, leaning ag ainst Harry's legs and reading the 
Daily Prophet. Three Dementor attack s in a week, and all Romilda Vane 
does is ask me if it's true you've got a Hippogriff tattooed across your chest.' 
 
Ron and Hermione both roared w ith laughter. Harry ignored them. 
 
'What did you tell her?' 
 
' ? told her it's a Hungarian Horntail, ' said Ginny, turning a page of the 
newspaper idly. 'Much more macho.' 
 
Thanks,' said Harry, grinning. 'And what did you tell her Ron's got?' 
 
'A Pygmy Puff, but I didn't say where.' 
 
Ron scowled as Hermi one rolled around laughing.  
'Watch it,' he said, pointing wamingly at Harry and Ginny. 'Just because 
I've given my permis sion doesn't mean I ca n't withdraw it -' 
 
"Tour permission",' scoffed Ginny.  'Since when did you give me 
permission to do anything? Anyway, you said yourself you'd rather it was 
Harry than Michael or Dean.' 
 
'Yeah, 1 would,' said Ron grudgingly.  'And just as long as you don't start 
snogging each other in public -' 
 
'You filthy hypocrite! What about you  and Lavender, thrash-ing around 
like a pair of eels all over the place?' demanded Ginny. 
 
But Ron's tolerance was not  to be tested much as  they moved into June, 
for Harry and Ginny's time together was becoming increasingly restricted. 
Ginny's O.W.L.s were approaching and sh e was therefore forced to revise 
for hours into the night. On one such evening, when Ginny had retired to the 
library and Harry was sitting beside  the window in the common room, 
supposedly finishing his Herbology home-work but in reality reliving a 
particularly happy hour he had spent down by the lake with Ginny at lunch-
time, Hermione dropped into the s eat between him and Ron with an 
unpleasantly purposeful look on her face. 
 
'I want to talk to you, Harry.' 
 'What about?' said Harry suspiciously . Only the previous day, Hermione 
had told him off for distracting Ginny when she ought to be working hard 
for her examinations. 
 
The so-called Half-Blood Prince.' 
 
'Oh, not again,' he groane d. 'Will you please drop it?' 
 
He had not dared to return to the Ro om of Requirement to retrieve his 
book, and his performance in Potions was suffer-ing accordingly (though Slughorn, who approve d of Ginny, had jocularly a ttributed this to Harry 
being lovesick). But Harry was sure th at Snape had not yet given up hope of 
laying hands on the Prince's book, and was determined to leave it where it 
was while Snape remained on the lookout. 
 
'I'm not dropping it,' said Hermione firmly, 'until you've heard me out. 
Now, I've been trying to find out a bit about who might make a hobby of inventing Dark spells -' 
 
'He didn't make a hobby of it -' 
 
'He, he - who says it's a he?' 
 
'We've been through this,' said Harry  crossly. 'Prince, Hermione, Prince!' 
 'Right!' said Hermione, red patches blazing in her cheeks as she pulled a 
very old piece of newsprint out of her pocket and slammed it down on the 
table in front of Harry. 'Look at that! Look at the picture!' 
 
Harry picked up the crumbling piece of paper and stared at the moving 
photograph, yellowed with age; Ron leaned over for a look, too. The picture showed a skinny girl of around fifteen. She was not pretty; she looked 
simultaneously cross and sullen, with heavy brows and a long, pallid face. 
Under-neath the photograph was the caption: Eileen Prince, Captain of the Hogwarts Gobstones Team. 
 
'So?' said Harry, scanning the shor t news item to which the picture 
belonged; it was a rather dull stor y about inter-school competitions. 
 
'Her name was Eileen Prince. Prince, Harry.' 
 
They looked at each other and Harry realised what Hermione was trying 
to say. He burst out laughing. 
 
'No way.' 
 
'What?' 
 
'You think she was the Hal f-Blood ...? Oh, come on.' 
 
'Well, why not? Harry, there aren't any real princes in the wizarding 
world! It's either a nickname, a ma de-up title somebody's given themselves, or it could be their actual name, couldn't it? No, listen! If, say, her father was 
a wizard 
 
whose surname was "Prince", and her mother was a Muggle, then that 
would make her a "half-blood Prince"!' 
 
'Yeah, very ingeniou s, Hermione ...' 
 
'But it would! Maybe she was pr oud of being half a Prince!' 
 
'Listen, Hermione, I can tell it's  not a girl. I can just tell.' 
 
The truth is that you don't think a gi rl would have been clever enough,' 
said Hermione angrily. 
 
'How can I have hung round with you for five years and not think girls are 
clever?' said Harry, stung by this. 'It' s the way he writes. I just know the 
Prince was a bloke, I can tell. This girl hasn't got anything to do with it. 
Where did you get this, anyway?' 
 
‘The library,' said Hermione, predic tably. There's a whole collection of 
old Prophets up there. Well, I'm going to  find out more about Eileen Prince 
if I can.' 
 
'Enjoy yourself,' said Harry irritably. 
 'I will,' said Hermione. 'And the first place I'll look,' she shot at him, as 
she reached the portrait hole, 'is records of old Potions awards!' 
 
Harry scowled after her for a moment, then continued his contemplation 
of the darkening sky. 
 
'She's just never got over you outperf orming her in Potions,' said Ron, 
returning to his copy of One Th ousand Magical Herbs and Fungi. 
 
'You don't think I'm mad, wanting that book back, do you?' 
 
'Course not,' said Ron robustly. 'He wa s a genius, the Prince. Anyway ... 
without his bezoar tip ...' he drew his finger significantly across his own 
throat, 'I wouldn't be here to discuss it,  would I? I mean, I'm not saying that 
spell you used on Malfoy was great -' 
 
'Nor am I,' said Harry quickly. 
 
'But he healed all right, didn't he? Back on his feet in no time.' 
 
'Yeah,' said Harry; this was perfec tly true, although his con-science 
squirmed slightly all the sa me. Thanks to Snape ...' 
 
'You still got detention with Snape this Saturday?' Ron continued. 
 'Yeah, and the Saturday after that, and the Saturday after that,' sighed 
Harry. 'And he's hinting now that if I don't get all the boxes done by the end 
of term, we'll carry on next year.' 
 
He was finding these deten tions particularly irksom e because they cut into 
the already limited time he could have been spending with Ginny. Indeed, he 
had frequently won-dered la tely whether Snape did not  know this, for he was 
keeping Harry later and la ter every time, while maki ng pointed asides about 
Harry having to miss the good weather and the varied opportunities it 
offered. 
 
Harry was shaken from these bitter re flections by the appearance at his 
side of Jimmy Peakes, who was hol ding out a scroll of parchment. 
 
‘Thanks, Jimmy ... hey, it's from Du mbledore!' said Harry excitedly, 
unrolling the parchment and scanning it. 'He wants me to go to his office as 
quick as 1 can!' 
 
They stared at each other. 
 
'Blimey,' whispered Ron. 'You don' t reckon ... he hasn't found ...?' 
 
'Better go and see, hadn't I?' said Harry, jumping to his feet. 
 
He hurried out of the common room and along the seventh floor as fast as 
he could, passing nobody but Peeves , who swooped past in the opposite 
direction, throwing bits of chalk at  Harry in a routine sort of way and cackling loudly as he dodged Harry's defensive jinx. Once Peeves had 
vanished, there was silen ce in the corridors; with only fifteen minutes left 
until curfew, most people had already returned to their common rooms. 
 
And then Harry heard a scream and a crash. He stopped in his tracks, 
listening. 
 
'How - dare - you - aaaaargh!' 
 
The noise was coming from a corridor nearby; Harry sprinted towards it, 
his wand at the ready, hurtled round another corner and saw Professor Trelawney sprawled upon the floor, he r head covered in one of her many 
shawls, several sherry bottles ly ing beside her, one broken. 
 
'Professor -' 
 
Harry hurried forwards and helped Pro fessor Trelawney to her feet. Some 
of her glittering beads had become entangled with her glasses. She 
hiccoughed loudly, patted he r hair and pulled herself up on Harry's helping 
arm. 
 
'What happened, Professor?' 
 
'You may well ask!' she said shrilly.  'I was strolling along, brooding upon 
certain Dark portents 1 happe n to have glimpsed ...' 
 But Harry was not paying much attenti on. He had just noticed where they 
were standing: there on the right was th e tapestry of dancing trolls and, on 
the left, that smoothly impenetrable st retch of stone wall that concealed - 
 
'Professor, were you trying to get into the Room of Requirement?' 
 
'... omens I have been vouchsafed - what?' 
 
She looked suddenly shifty. 
 
The Room of Requirement,' repeated Harry. 'Were you try-ing to get in 
there?' 
 
'I - well - I didn't know students knew about -' 
 
'Not all of them do,' sa id Harry. 'But what happe ned? You screamed ... it 
sounded as though you were hurt...' 
 
'I - well,' said Professor Trelawne y, drawing her shawls around her 
defensively and staring down at him with her vastly magnified eyes. 'I 
wished to - ah - deposit certain – um - personal items in the Room ...' And 
she muttered something about 'nasty accusations'. 
 
'Right,' said Harry, glancing down at  the sherry bottles. 'But you couldn't 
get in and hide them?' 
 He found this very odd; the Room had opened for him, after all, when he 
had wanted to hide the Half-Blood Prince's book. 
 
'Oh, I got in all right,' said Professor Trelawney, glaring at the wall. 'But 
there was somebody already in there.' 
 
'Somebody in -? Who?' demanded Harry. 'Who was in there?' 
 
' ? have no idea,' said Pro fessor Trelawney, looking slightly taken aback at 
the urgency in Harry's voice. 'I walked  into the Room and I heard a voice, 
which has never happened be fore in all my years of hiding - of using the 
Room, I mean.' 
 
'A voice? Saying what?' 
 
'I don't know that it was saying anyt hing,' said Professor Trelawney. 'It 
was ... whooping.' 
 
'Whooping?' 
 
'Gleefully,' she said, nodding. 
 
Harry stared at her. 
 
'Was it male or female?' 
 
' ? would hazard a guess at male,' said Professor Trelawney.  
'And it sounded happy?' 
 
'Very happy,' said Professor Trelawney sniffily. 
 
'As though it was celebrating?' 
 
'Most definitely.' 
 
'And then -?' 
 
'And then I called out, "Who's there?"' 
 
'You couldn't have found out who it was without asking?' Harry asked 
her, slightly frustrated. 
 
‘The Inner Eye,' said Professor Trelaw ney with dignity, straightening her 
shawls and many strands of glittering b eads, 'was fixed upon matters well 
outside the mundane realms of whooping voices.' 
 
'Right,' said Harry hastily; he had h eard about Professor Trelawney's Inner 
Eye all too often before. 'And di d the voice say who was there?' 
 
'No, it did not,' she said. 'Everything went pitch black and the next thing I 
knew, I was being hurled head first out of the Room!' 
 
'And you didn't see that coming?' said Harry, unable to help himself.  
'No, I did not, as I say, it was pitch -' She stopped and glared at him 
suspiciously. 
 
'I think you'd better tell Professor Dumbledore,' said Harry. 'He ought to 
know Malfoy's celebrating - I mean, th at some-one threw you out of the 
Room.' 
 
To his surprise, Professor Trelawney dr ew herself up at this suggestion, 
looking haughty. 
 
The Headmaster has intimated that he would prefer fewer visits from me,' 
she said coldly. I am not one to pr ess my company upon those who do not 
value it. If Dumbledore chooses to igno re the warnings the cards show -' 
 
Her bony hand closed suddenly around Harry's wrist. 
 
'Again and again, no matte r how I lay them out -' 
 
And she pulled a card dramatic ally from underneath her shawls. 
 
'- the lightning-struck tower,' she wh ispered. 'Calamity. Disaster. Coming 
nearer all the time ...' 
 
'Right,' said Harry again. 'Well ... I still think you should tell Dumbledore 
about this voice and everything going dark and being thrown out of the 
Room ...'  
'You think so?' Professor Trelawney se emed to consider the matter for a 
moment, but Harry could tell that she liked the idea of retelling her little 
adventure. 
 
'I'm going to see him right now,' said Harry. 'I've got a meeting with him. 
We could go together.' 
 
'Oh, well, in that case,' said Professor Trelawney with a smile. She bent 
down, scooped up her sherry bottles a nd dumped them unceremoniously in a 
large blue and white vase standing in a nearby niche. 
 
'I miss having you in my classes, Harry,' she said so ulfully, as they set off 
together. 'You were never much of a Seer ... but you were a wonderful 
Object...' 
 
Harry did not reply; he had loathe d being the Object of Professor 
Trelawney's continual predictions of doom. 
 
'I am afraid,' she went on, 'that the nag - I'm sorry, the centaur - knows 
nothing of cartomancy. I asked him - one Seer to another - had he not, too, 
sensed the distant vibra-tions of comi ng catastrophe? But he seemed to find 
me almost comical. Yes, comical!' 
 
Her voice rose rather hysterically and Harry caught a powerful whiff of 
sherry even though the bottles had been left behind. 
 'Perhaps the horse has heard people say that I have not inherited my great-
great-grandmother's gift. Those rumour s have been bandied about by the 
jealous for years. You know what I say to such people, Harry? Would 
Dumbledore have let me teac h at this great school, put so much trust in me 
all these years, had I not proved myself to him?' 
 
Harry mumbled something indistinct. 
 
'I well remember my first intervie w with Dumbledore,' went on Professor 
Trelawney, in throaty tones. 'He was deeply impressed, of course, deeply 
impressed ... I was staying at the Hog's Head, which I do not advise, 
incidentally - bed bugs, dear boy - but  funds were low. Dumbledore did me 
the courtesy of calling upon me in my ro om at the inn. He questioned me ... I 
must confess that, at first, I thou ght he seemed ill- disposed towards 
Divination ... and I remember I was st arting to feel a little odd, I had not 
eaten much that da y ... but then ...' 
 
And now Harry was paying attention pr operly for the first time, for he 
knew what had happened then: Professo r Trelawney had made the prophecy 
that had altered the course of his w hole life, the prophecy about him and 
Voldemort. 
 
'... but then we were rudely interrupted by Severus Snape!' 
 
'What?' 
 'Yes, there was a commotion outside th e door and it flew open, and there 
was that rather uncouth barman sta nding with Snape,  who was waffling 
about having come the wrong way up the stairs, although I'm afraid that I 
myself rather thought he had been  apprehended eavesdropping on my 
interview with Dumbledore - you see, he  himself was seeking a job at the 
time, and no doubt hoped to pick up tips! Well, after that, you know, 
Dumbledore seemed much more dis-posed to give me a job, and I could not 
help thinking, Harry, that it was because  he appreciated the stark contrast 
between my own unassuming manners and quiet talent, compared to the 
pushing, thrusting young man who was prepared to listen at keyholes - 
Harry, dear?' 
 
She looked back over her shoulder, ha ving only just real-ised that Harry 
was no longer with her; he had stopped walking and they were now ten feet 
from each other. 
 
'Harry?' she repeated uncertainly. 
 
Perhaps his face was white , to make her look so concerned and frightened. 
Harry was standing stock-st ill as waves of shock crashed over him, wave 
after wave, obliterating every-thing except the information that had been 
kept from him for so long ... 
 
It was Snape who had overheard the prophecy. It was Snape who had 
carried the news of the prophecy to  Voldemort. Snape and Peter Pettigrew 
together had sent Voldemort hunt-ing after Lily and James and their son ... 
 Nothing else mattered to Harry just now. 
 
'Harry?' said Professor Trelawney agai n. 'Harry - I thou ght we were going 
to see the Headmaster together?' 
 
'You stay here,' said Harry through numb lips. 
 
'But, dear ... I was going to tell him how I was assaulted in the Room of-' 
 
'You stay here!' Harry repeated angrily. 
 
She looked alarmed as he ran past her, round the corner into 
Dumbledore's corridor, where the lone  gargoyle stood sentry. Harry shouted 
the password at the gargoyle and ran up the moving spiral staircase three 
steps at a time. He did not knock upon Dumbledore's door, he hammered; 
and the calm voice answered 'Enter' af ter Harry had already flung himself 
into the room. 
 
Fawkes the phoenix looked round, his bright black eyes gleaming with 
reflected gold from the sunset beyond the window. Dumbledore was 
standing at the window look-ing out at the grounds, a long, black travelling 
cloak in his arms. 
 
'Well, Harry, I promised that you could come with me.' 
 For a moment or two, Harry did not understand; the con-versation with 
Trelawney had driven everything else out of his head and his brain seemed 
to be moving very slowly. 
 
'Come ... with you ... ?' 
 
'Only if you wish it, of course.' 
 
'If I...' 
 
And then Harry remembered why he  had been eager to come to 
Dumbledore's office in the first place. 
 
'You've found one? You've found a Horcrux?' 
 
'I believe so.' 
 
Rage and resentment foug ht shock and excitemen t: for several moments, 
Harry could not speak. 
 
'It is natural to be a fraid,' said Dumbledore. 
 
'I'm not scared!' said Harry at once, and it was perfectly 
 
  
 true; fear was one emotion he was not feeling at all. 'Which Horcrux is it? 
Where is it?' 
 
'I am not sure which it is - though I th ink we can rule out the snake - but I 
believe it to be hidden in a cave on th e coast many miles from here, a cave I 
have been trying to locate for a very  long time: the ca ve in which Tom 
Riddle once terror-ised two children from his orphanage on their annual trip; 
you remember?' 
 
'Yes,' said Harry. 'How is it protected?' 
 
'I do not know; I have suspicions  that may be entirely wrong.' 
Dumbledore hesitated, then said, 'Harry, I promised you that you could come with me, and I stand by that prom-ise, but it would be very wrong of me not 
to warn you that this will be exceedingly dangerous.' 
 
'I'm coming,' said Harry, almost before Dumbledore had finished 
speaking. Boiling with anger at Snape, his desire to do something desperate 
and risky had increased tenfold in the la st few minutes. This seemed to show 
on Harry's face, for Dumbledore move d away from the window, and looked 
more closely at Harry, a slight cr ease between his silver eyebrows. 
 
'What has happe ned to you?' 
 
'Nothing,' lied Harry promptly. 
 
'What has upset you?'  
'I'm not upset.' 
 
'Harry, you were never a good Occlumens -' 
 
The word was the spark th at ignited Harry's fury. 
 
'Snape!' he said, very loudly, and Fawkes gave a soft squawk behind 
them. 'Snape's what's happened! He told Voldemort about the prophecy, it 
was him, he listened outside the door, Trelawney told me!' 
 
Dumbledore's expression did not ch ange, but Harry thought his face 
whitened under the bloody tin ge cast by the setting sun. For a long moment, 
Dumbledore said nothing. 
 
'When did you find out about this?' he asked at last. 
 
'Just now!' said Many, who was re fraining from yelling with enormous 
difficulty. And then, suddenly, he could not stop himself. 'AND YOU LET 
HIM TEACH HERE AND HE TOLD VOLDEMORT TO GO AFTER MY 
MUM AND DAD!' 
 
Breathing hard as though he were fighting, Harry turned away from 
Dumbledore, who still had not moved a muscle, and paced up and down the 
study, rubbing his knuckles in his hand and exercising every last bit of restraint to prevent himself knocking th ings over. He wanted to rage and 
storm at Dumbledore, but he also wanted to go with him to try and destroy the Horcrux; he wanted to tell him that  he was a fool-ish old man for trusting 
Snape, but he was terrified that Dumbledore would not take him along 
unless he mastered his anger ... 
 
'Harry,' said Dumbledore quiet ly. 'Please listen to me.' 
 
It was as difficult to stop his relentle ss pacing as to refrain from shouting. 
Harry paused, biting his lip, and l ooked into Dumbledore's lined face. 
 
'Professor Snape made a terrible -' 
 
'Don't tell me it was a mistake, si r, he was listening at the door!' 
 
'Please let me finish.' Dumbledore waited until Harry had nodded curtly, 
then went on. 'Professor Snape made a terrible mistake. He was still in Lord 
Voldemort's employ on the night he heard the first half of Professor Trelawney's prophecy. Naturally, he hast ened to tell his master what he had 
heard, for it concerned his master most  deeply. But he did not know - he had 
no possible way of knowing - which boy Voldemort would hunt from then 
onwards, or that the parents he would destroy in his murderous quest were 
people that Professor Snape knew, that th ey were your mother and father -' 
 
Harry let out a yell of mirthless laughter. 
 
'He hated my dad like he hated Sirius! Haven' t you noticed, Professor, 
how the people Snape hates tend to end up dead?' 
 'You have no idea of the remorse Profe ssor Snape felt when he realised 
how Lord Voldemort had interpreted th e prophecy, Harry. I believe it to be 
the greatest regret of his life and the reason that he returned -' 
 
'But he's a very good Occlumens, is n't he, sir?' said Harry, whose voice 
was shaking with the effort of keeping it steady. 'And isn't Voldemort 
convinced that Snape's on his side, even now? Professor ... how can you be 
sure Snape's on our side?' 
 
Dumbledore did not speak for a mome nt; he looked as though he was 
trying to make up his mind about somethi ng. At last he said, 'I am sure. I 
trust Severus Snape completely.' 
 
Harry breathed deeply for a few moments in an effort to steady himself. It 
did not work. 
 
'Well, I don't!' he said, as loudly as  before. 'He's up to something with 
Draco Malfoy right now, right u nder your nose, and you still -' 
 
'We have discussed this, Harry,' sa id Dumbledore, and now he sounded 
stern again. 'I have told you my views.' 
 
'You're leaving the school tonight and I'll bet you haven't even considered 
that Snape and Malfoy might decide to -' 
 
To what?' asked Dumbledore, his eyebrows raised. 'What is it that you 
suspect them of doing, precisely?'  
'I ... they're up to something!' said Ha rry and his hands curled into fists as 
he said it. 'Professor Trelawney was just in the Room of Requirement, trying 
to hide her sherry bottles, and she h eard Malfoy whooping, celebrating! He's 
trying to mend something dangerous in there and if you ask me he's fixed it 
at last and you're about to just walk out of school * without -' 
 
'Enough,' said Dumbledore. He said it quite calmly, and yet Harry fell 
silent at once; he knew that he had finally crossed some invisible line. 'Do 
you think that I have once left the sc hool unprotected during my absences 
this year? I have not. Tonight, when I leave, there will again be additional 
protec-tion in place. Please do not suggest that I do not take the safety of my 
students seriously, Harry.' 
 
'I didn't -' mumbled Harry, a little abashed, but Dumbledore cut across 
him. 
 
' ? do not wish to discu ss the matter any further.' 
 
Harry bit back his retort , scared that he had gone too far, that he had 
ruined his chance of accompanying Dumbledore, but Dumbledore went on, 
'Do you wish to come with me tonight?' 
 
'Yes,' said Harry at once. 
 
'Very well, then: listen.' 
 Dumbledore drew himself up to his full height. 
 
'I take you with me on one condition:  that you obey any command I might 
give you at once, and without question.' 
 
'Of course.' 
 
'Be sure to understand me, Harry. I m ean that you must follow even such 
orders as "run", "hide" or "go back". Do I have your word?' 
 
'I - yes, of course.' 
 
'If 1 tell you to hide, you will do so?' 
 
'Yes.' 
 
'If I tell you to flee, you will obey?' 
 
'Yes.' 
 
'If I tell you to leave me, and save  yourself, you will do as I tell you?' 
 
'I -' 
 
'Harry?' 
 
They looked at each other for a moment.  
'Yes, sir.' 
 
'Very good. Then I wish you to go and fetch your Cloak and meet me in 
the Entrance Hall in five minutes' time.' 
 
Dumbledore turned back to look out  of the fiery window; the sun was 
now a ruby-red glare along the horizon . Harry walked quickly from the 
office and down the spiral staircase. His mind was oddly clear all of a 
sudden. He knew what to do. 
 
Ron and Hermione were sitting together in the common room when he 
came back. 'What does Dumbledore want?'  Hermione said at once. 'Harry, 
are you OK?' she added anxiously. 
 
'I'm fine,' said Harry shortly, racing past them. He dashed up the stairs and 
into his dormitory, where he flun g open his trunk and pulled out the 
Marauder's Map and a pair of balled-up socks. Then he sped back down the 
stairs and into the common room , skidding to a halt where Ron and 
Hermione sat, looking stunned. 
 
'I haven't got much time,' Harry pa nted, 'Dumbledore thinks I'm getting 
my Invisibility Cloak. Listen ...' 
 
Quickly he told them where he was going, and why. He did not pause 
either for Hermione's gasps of horror or for Ron's hasty questions; they could work out the finer details for themselves later.  
'... so you see what this means?' Harry finished at a gallop. 'Dumbledore 
won't be here tonight, so Malfoy's go ing to have another clear shot at 
whatever he's up to. No, listen to me!"  he hissed angrily,  as both Ron and 
Hermione showed every sign of interrupting. 'I know it was Malfoy 
celebrating in the Room of Requirement . Here -' He shoved the Marauder's 
Map into Hermione's hand. 'You've got to watch him and you've got to 
watch Snape, too. Use anyone else who you can rustle up from the DA. 
Hermione, those contact Galleons w ill still work, right? Dumbledore says 
he's put extra protection in the school , but if Snape's involved, he'll know 
what Dumbledore's protection is, and how to avoid it - but he won't be expecting you lot to be on the watch, will he?' 
 
'Harry -' began Hermione, her eyes huge with fear. 
 
' ? haven't got time to argue,' said Ha rry curtly. Take this as well -' He 
thrust the socks into Ron's hands. 
 
‘Thanks,' said Ron. 'Er - why do I need socks?' 
 
'You need what's wrapped in them, it's the Felix Felicis. Share it between 
yourselves and Ginny too. Say goodby e to her from me. I'd better go, 
Dumbledore's waiting -' 
 
'No!' said Hermione, as Ron unwra pped the tiny little bottle of golden 
potion, looking awestruck. 'We don't wa nt it, you take it, who knows what 
you're going to be facing?'  
'I'Il be fine, I'll be with Dumbledore,' said Harry. 'I want to know you lot 
are OK ... don't look like that, Hermione, I'll see you later 
 
And he was off, hurrying back th rough the portrait hole towards the 
Entrance Hall. 
 
Dumbledore was waiting beside the oake n front doors. He turned as Harry 
came skidding out on to the topmost stone step, panting hard, a searing stitch 
in his side. 
 
'I would like you to wear your Cloak, please,' said Dumbledore, and he 
waited until Harry had thrown it on befo re saying, 'Very good. Shall we go?' 
 
Dumbledore set off at once down the stone steps, his own travelling cloak 
barely stirring in the still summer air.  Harry hurried alongside him under the 
Invisibility Cloak, still pant-ing and sweating rather a lot. 
 
'But what will people think when they see you leaving, Professor?' Harry 
asked, his mind on Malfoy and Snape. 
 
That I am off into Hogsmeade for a drink,' said Dumbledore lightly. 'I 
sometimes offer Rosmerta my custom, or  else visit the Hog's Head ... or I 
appear to. It is as good a way as any of disguising one's true destination.' 
 
They made their way down the drive in the gathering twi-light. The air 
was full of the smells of warm gra ss, lake water and wood smoke from Hagrid's cabin. It was difficult to belie ve that they were heading for anything 
dangerous or frightening. 
 
'Professor,' said Harry quietly, as the gates at the bottom of the drive came 
into view, 'will we be Apparating?' 
 
'Yes,' said Dumbledore. 'You can Apparate now, I believe?' 
 
'Yes,' said Harry, 'but I haven't got a licence.' 
 
He felt it best to be honest; what if he spoiled everything by turning up a 
hundred miles from where he  was supposed to go? 
 
'No matter,' said Dumbledore,  'I can assist you again.' 
 
They turned out of the gates into th e twilit, deserted lane to Hogsmeade. 
Darkness descended fast as they walk ed and by the time they reached the 
High Street night was falling in earne st. Lights twinkled from windows over 
shops and as they neared the Three Broomsticks they heard raucous 
shouting. 
 
'- and stay out!' shouted Madam Rosmerta, forcibly ejecting a grubby-
looking wizard. 'Oh, hello, Al bus ... you're out late ...' 
 
'Good evening, Rosmerta, good evenin g ... forgive me, I'm off to the 
Hog's Head ... no offence, but I feel like a quieter atmosphere tonight...' 
 A minute later they turned the corner into the side  street where the Hog's 
Head's sign creaked a little, though there was no breeze. In contrast to the 
Three Broomsticks, the pub appeared  to be completely empty. 
 
'It will not be necessary for us to enter,' muttered Dumbledore, glancing 
around. 'As long as nobody sees us go ... now place your hand upon my arm, 
Harry. There is no need to grip too hard, I am merely guiding you. On the 
count of three - one ... two ... three ...' 
 
Harry turned. At once, there was that horrible sensation that he was being 
squeezed through a thick rubber tube; he  could not draw breath, every part 
of him was being com-pressed almost pa st endurance and then, just when he 
thought he must suffocate, the invisibl e bands seemed to burst open, and he 
was standing in cool darkness, breathi ng in lungfuls of fresh, salty air. 
CHAPTER 26 
 
Harry could smell salt and hear rushing waves; a light, chilly breeze 
ruffled his hair as he looked out at moon-lit sea and star-strewn sky. He was 
standing upon a high outcrop of dark  rock, water foaming and churning 
below him. He glanced over his shou lder. A towering cliff stood behind 
them, a sheer drop, black and faceless. A few large chunks of rock, such as 
the one upon which Harry and Dumbledor e were standing, looked as though 
they had broken away from the cliff face at some point in the past. It was a 
bleak, harsh view, the sea and the rock  unrelieved by any tree or sweep of 
grass or sand. 
 
"What do you think?" asked Dumble dore. He might have been asking 
Harry's opinion on whether it was a good site for a picnic. 
 
"They brought the kids from the or phanage here?" asked Harry, who 
could not imagine a less cozy spot for a day trip. 
 
"Not here, precisely," said Dumbledore.  "There is a village of sorts about 
halfway along the cliffs behind us. I be lieve the orphans were taken there for 
a little sea air and a view of the wave s. No, I think it was only ever Tom 
Riddle and his youthful victims who visited this spot. No Muggle could reach this rock unless they were unc ommonly good mountaineers, and boats 
cannot approach the cliffs, the wate rs around them are too dangerous. I 
imagine that Riddle climbed down; ma gic would have served better than 
ropes. And he brought two small ch ildren with him, probably for the pleasure of terrorizing them. I think th e journey alone would have done it, 
don't you?" 
 
Harry looked up at the cliff again and felt goose bumps. 
 
"But his final destination — and our s — lies a little farther on. Come." 
 
Dumbledore beckoned Harry to the very edge of the rock where a series 
of jagged niches made footholds lead ing down to boulders that lay half-
submerged in water and closer to the cliff. It was a treacherous descent and 
Dumbledore, hampered slightly by hi s withered hand, moved slowly. The 
lower rocks were slippery with seawater. Harry could feel flecks of cold salt 
spray hitting his face. "Lumos," said Dumbledore, as he reached the boulder 
closest to the cliff face. A thousand fleck s of golden light sparkled upon the 
dark surface of the water a few feet be low where he crouched; the black wall 
of rock beside him was illuminate d too. "You see?" said Dumbledore 
quietly, holding his wand a little higher. Harry saw a fi ssure in the cliff into 
which dark water was swirling. "You will not object to getting a little wet?" 
 
"No," said Harry. 
 
"Then take off your Invi sibility Cloak — there is no need for it now — 
and let us take the plunge ," And with the sudden agility of a much younger 
man, Dumble-dore slid from the boulde r, landed in the sea, and began to 
swim, with a perfect breaststroke, toward  the dark slit in the rock face, his lit 
wand held in his teeth. Harry pulled off his cloak, stuffed it into his pocket, 
and followed. The water was icy; Harry's wate rlogged clothes billowed around him and weighed him down. Taki ng deep breaths that filled his 
nostrils with the tang of salt and seawee d, he struck out for the shimmering, 
shrinking light now moving deeper into  the cliff. The fissure soon opened 
into a dark tunnel that Harry could te ll would be filled w ith water at high 
tide. The slimy walls were barely thr ee feet apart and glimmered like wet tar 
in the passing light of Dumbledore's wand. A little way in, the passageway 
curved to the left, and Harry saw that it extended far into the cliff. He 
continued to swim in Dumbledore's wa ke, the tips of his benumbed fingers 
brushing the rough, wet rock. 
 
Then he saw Dumbledore rising out of  the water ahead, his sil-ver hair 
and dark robes gleaming. When Harry reached the spot he found steps that 
led into a large cave. He clambere d up them, water streaming from his 
soaking clothes, and emerged, shiver ing uncontrollably, into the still and 
freezing air. 
 
Dumbledore was standing in the middle of the cave, his wand held high as 
he turned slowly on the spot, examining the walls and ceiling. 
 
"Yes, this is the place," said Dumbledore. 
 
"How can you tell?" Harry spoke in a whisper. 
 
"It has known magic," said Dumble dore simply. Harry could not tell 
whether the shivers he was experiencing were due to his spine-deep coldness 
or to the same awareness of 
 enchantments. He watched as Dumb ledore continued to revolve on the 
spot, evidently concentrating on things Harry could not see. "This is merely 
the antechamber, the entrance hall," said  Dumbledore after a moment or two. 
"We need to penetrate the inner place.  . . . Now it is Lord Voldemort's 
obstacles that stand in our way, rath er than those nature made. . . ." 
 
Dumbledore approached the wall of the cave and caressed it with his 
blackened fingertips, murmuring words in a strange tongue that Harry did 
not understand. Twice Dumbledore wa lked right around the cave, touching 
as much of the rough rock as he c ould, occasionally pausing, running his 
fingers backward and for-ward over a particular spot, until finally he 
stopped, his hand pressed flat against th e wall. "Here," he said. "We go on 
through here. The entrance is c on-cealed." Harry did not ask how 
Dumbledore knew. He had never seen a wizard work things out like this, 
simply by looking and touching; but Harry had long since learned that bangs 
and smoke were more often the mark s of ineptitude than expertise. 
Dumbledore stepped back from the cave  wall and pointed his wand at the 
rock. For a moment, an arched outline  appeared there, blazing white as 
though there was a powerful light behind the crack. 
 
"You've d-done it!" said Harry through  chattering teeth, but before the 
words had left his lips the outline ha d gone, leaving the rock as bare and 
solid as ever. Dumbledore looked around. 
 
"Harry, I'm so sorry, I forgot," he sa id; he now pointed his wand at Harry 
and at once, Harry's clothes were as warm and dry as if they had been 
hanging in front of a blazing fire.  
"Thank you," said Harry gratefully, but Dumbledore had al-ready turned 
his attention back to the solid cave wall.  He did not try any more magic, but 
simply stood there staring at it intently, as though something extremely 
interesting was written on it. Harry stay ed quite still; he did not want to 
break Dumbledores concen-tration. Then, after two solid minutes, Dumbledore said quietly, "Oh,  surely not. So crude." 
 
"What is it, Professor?" 
 
"I rather think," said Dumbledore, putting his uninjured hand inside his 
robes and drawing out a short silver kn ife of the kind Harry used to chop 
potion ingredients, "that we are re quired to make payment to pass." 
 
"Payment?" said Harry. "You've got  to give the door something?" 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore. "Blood, if I am not much mistaken." 
 
"Blood?" 
 
"I said it was crude," said Dumble dore, who sounded disdainful, even 
disappointed, as though Voldemort had fallen short of higher standards 
Dumbledore expected. "The idea, as I am sure you will have gathered, is that 
your enemy must weaken him- or he rself to enter. Once again, Lord 
Voldemort fails to grasp that there are much more terrible things than 
physical injury." 
 "Yeah, but still, if you can avoid it . . ." said Harry, who had ex-perienced 
enough pain not to be keen for more. 
 
"Sometimes, however, it is unavoidable, " said Dumbledore, shaking back 
the sleeve of his robes and exposing the forearm of his injured hand. 
 
"Professor!" protested Harry, hurrying forward as Dumbledore raised his 
knife. "I'll do it, I'm —" He did not know what he was going to say — 
younger, fitter? 
 
But Dumbledore merely smiled. There wa s a flash of silver, and a spurt of 
scarlet; the rock face was peppe red with dark, glistening drops. 
 
"You are very kind, Harry," said Du mbledore, now passing the tip of his 
wand over the deep cut he had made in  his own arm, so that it healed 
instantly, just as Snap e had healed Malfoy's wound, "But your blood is 
worth more than mine. Ah, that seems to have done the trick, doesn't it?" 
The blazing silver outline of an arch had appeared in the wall once more, 
and this time it did not fade away: The blood-spattered rock within it simply 
vanished, leaving an opening into what seemed total darkne ss. "After me, I 
think," said Dumbledore, and he walked  through the archway with Harry on 
his heels, lighting his own wand hastily as he went. 
 
An eerie sight met their eyes: They were standing on the edge of a great 
black lake, so vast that Harry could not make out the distant banks, in a 
cavern so high that the ceiling too wa s out of sight. A misty greenish light 
shone far away in what looked like the mid-dle of the lake; it was reflected in the completely still water below. Th e greenish glow and the light from the 
two wands were the only things that broke the otherwise velvety blackness, 
though their rays did not penetrate as far as Harry would have expected. The 
dark-ness was somehow dens er than normal darkness. 
 
"Let us walk," said Dumbledore quietly . "Be very careful not to step into 
the water. Stay close to me." He se t off around the edge of the lake, and 
Harry followed close behind him. Thei r footsteps made echoing, slapping 
sounds on the narrow rim of rock that  surrounded the water.  On and on they 
walked, but the view did not vary: on one side of them, the rough cavern wall, on the other, the boundless expanse of smooth, glassy blackness, in the 
very middle of which was that myster ious greenish glow. Harry found the 
place and the silence oppressive, unnerving. 
 
"Professor?" he said finally. "Do you think the Horcrux is here?" 
 
"Oh yes," said Dumbledore. "Yes, I'm sure it is. The question is, how do 
we get to it?" 
 
"We couldn't... we coul dn't just try a Summoning Charm?" Harry said, 
sure that it was a stupid suggestion. Bu t he was much keener than he was 
prepared to admit on getting out of this place as soon as possible. 
 
"Certainly we could," said Dumbledor e, stopping so suddenly that Harry 
almost walked into him. "Why don't you do it?" 
 "Me? Oh . . . okay . . ." Harry had not expected this, but cleared his throat 
and said loudly, wand aloft, "Accio Horcrux!" 
 
With a noise like an explosion, someth ing very large and pale erupted out 
of the dark water some twenty feet away; before Harry could see what it 
was, it had vanished again with a cr ashing splash that made great, deep 
ripples on the mirrored surface. Harry leapt backward in shock and hit the 
wall; his heart was still thundering as he turned to Dumbledore. 
 
"What was that?" 
 
"Something, I think, that is ready to  respond should we attempt to seize 
the Horcrux." 
 
Harry looked back at the water. Th e surface of the lake was once more 
shining black glass: The ripples had vani shed unnaturally fast; Harry's heart, 
however, was still pounding. 
 
"Did you think that would happen, sir?" 
 
"I thought something would happen if we  made an obvious at-tempt to get 
our hands on the Horcrux. That was a very good idea, Harry; much the 
simplest way of finding out what we are facing." 
 
"But we don't know what the thing was," said Harry, looking at the 
sinisterly smooth water. 
 "What the things are, you mean," sa id Dumbledore. "I doubt very much 
that there is only one of them. Shall we walk on?" 
 
"Professor?" 
 
"Yes, Harry?" 
 
"Do you think we're going to have to go into the lake?" 
 
"Into it? Only if we are very unfortunate." 
 
"You don't think the Horcrux is at the bottom?" 
 
"Oh no ... I think the Horcrux is in the middle." And Dumbledore pointed 
toward the misty green light in the center of the lake. 
 
"So we're going to have to cr oss the lake to get to it?" 
 
"Yes, I think so." Harry did not say anything. His thoughts were all of 
water mon-sters, of giant serpents, of  demons, kelpies, and sprites. . . . 
 
"Aha," said Dumbledore, and he stopped again; this time, Harry really did 
walk into him; for a moment he toppled  on the edge of the dark water, and 
Dumbledore's uninjured hand closed tightly around his upper arm, pulling 
him back. "So sorry, Harry, I should have  given warning. Stand back against 
the wall, please; I think I have found the place." 
 Harry had no idea what Dumbledore meant; this patch of dark bank was 
exactly like every other bit as far as he could tell, but Dumbledore seemed to 
have detected something special about it. This time he was running his hand, 
not over the rocky wall, but t hrough the thin air, as though expecting to find 
and grip some-thing invisible. 
 
"Oho," said Dumbledore happily, seconds later. His hand had closed in 
midair upon something Harry could not see. Dumble-dore moved closer to 
the water; Harry watched nervously as the tips of Dumbledore's buckled 
shoes found the utmost edge of the rock  rim. Keeping his hand clenched in 
midair, Dumbledore raised his wand with the other and tapped his fist with 
the point. 
 
Immediately a thick coppery green ch ain appeared out of thin air, 
extending from the depths of the wate r into Dumbledore's clenched hand. 
Dumbledore tapped the chain, which bega n to slide through his fist like a 
snake, coiling itself on the ground with a clinking sound that echoed noisily 
off the rocky walls, pulling something fro m the depths of the black water. 
Harry gasped as the ghostly prow of a tiny boat broke the surface, glowing 
as green as the chain, and floated, with  barely a ripple, toward the place on 
the bank where Harry and Dumbledore stood. 
 
"How did you know that was there? " Harry asked in astonish-ment. 
 
"Magic always leaves traces," said  Dumbledore, as the boat hit the bank 
with a gentle bump, "sometimes very distinctive traces. I taught Tom Riddle. 
I know his style."  
"Is ... is this boat safe?" 
 
"Oh yes, I think so. Voldemort needed to create a means to cross the lake 
without attracting the wrath of those cr eatures he had placed within it in case 
he ever wanted to visit or remove his Horcrux." 
 
"So the things in the water won't do anything to us if we cross in 
Voldemort's boat?" 
 
"I think we must resign ourselves to th e fact that they will, at some point, 
realize we are not Lord Voldemort. Thus far, however, we have done well. 
They have allowed us to raise the boat." 
 
"But why have they let us?" aske d Harry, who could not shake off the 
vision of tentacles rising out of the da rk water the moment they were out of 
sight of the bank. 
 
"Voldemort would have been reasona bly confident that none but a very 
great wizard would have been able to  find the boat," said Dumbledore. "I 
think he would have been prepared to risk what was, to his mind, the most 
unlikely possibility that somebody else would find it, knowing that he had 
set other obstacles ahead that only he w ould be able to penetrate. We shall 
see whether he was right." 
 Harry looked down into the boat. It re ally was very sma ll. "It doesn't look 
like it was built for two people. Will it hold both of us? Will we be too 
heavy together?" 
 
Dumbledore chuckled. "Voldemort will not have cared about the weight, 
but about the amount of magical power th at crossed his lake. I rather think 
an enchantment will have been placed upon this boat so that only one wizard 
at a time will be able to sail in it." 
 
"But then — ?" 
 
"I do not think you will count, Harry: You are underage and un-qualified. 
Voldemort would never have expected a sixteen-year-old to reach this place: 
I think it unlikely that your powers will register compared to mine." These 
words did nothing to raise Harrys mo rale; perhaps Dumbledore knew it, for 
he added, "Voldemort's mistake, Ha rry, Voldemort's mistake. . . Age is 
foolish and forgetful when it underestim ates youth. . . . Now, you first this 
time, and be careful not to touch the water." Dumbledore stood aside and 
Harry climbed carefully into the boat.  Dumbledore stepped in too, coiling 
the chain onto the floor. They were cr ammed in together; Harry could not 
comfortably sit, but crouched, his knees  jutting over the edge of the boat, 
which be-gan to move at once. Ther e was no sound other than the silken 
rus-tle of the boat's prow cleaving the water; it moved without their help, as 
though an invisible rope wa s pulling it onward toward the light in the center. 
Soon they could no longer see the walls of the cavern; they might have been at sea except that there were no waves. 
 Harry looked down and saw the reflect ed gold of his wandlight sparkling 
and glittering on the black water as they passed. The boat was carving deep 
ripples upon the glassy surface, gr ooves in the dark mirror. . . . 
 
And then Harry saw it, marble white , floating inches below the surface. 
"Professor!" he said, and his startled voice echoed loudly over the silent water. 
 
"Harry?" 
 
"I think I saw a hand in the water — a human hand!" 
 
"Yes, I am sure you did," said Dumbledore calmly. 
 
Harry stared down into the water, looking for the vanished hand, and a 
sick feeling rose in his throat. 
 
"So that thing that jumped out of  the water — ?" But Harry had his 
answer before Dumbledore could reply;  the wandlight had slid over a fresh 
patch of water and showed  him, this time, a dead man lying faceup inches 
beneath the surface, his open eyes misted  as though with cobwebs, his hair 
and his robes swirling around him like smoke. "There are bodies in here!" 
said Harry, and his voice sounded much  higher than usual and most unlike 
his own. 
 
"Yes," said Dumbledore placidly, "but we do not need to worry about 
them at the moment."  
"At the moment?" Harry repeated, tear ing his gaze from the water to look 
at Dumbledore. 
 
"Not while they are merely drif ting peacefully below us," said 
Dumbledore. "There is no thing to be feared from a body, Harry, any more 
than there is anything to  be feared from the darkness. Lord Voldemort, who 
of course secretly fears both, disagr ees. But once again he reveals his own 
lack of wisdom. It is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and 
darkness, nothing more." Ha rry said nothing; he did not want to argue, but 
he found the idea that there were bodi es floating around them and beneath 
them horrible and, what was more, he did not believe that they were not 
dangerous. 
 
"But one of them jumped," he said, trying to make his voice as level and 
calm as Dumbledore's. "When I tried to Summon the Horcrux, a body leapt 
out of the lake." 
 
" Y e s , "  s a id  D u m b l e d o r e .  " I  a m  s u r e  that once we take the Horcrux, we 
shall find them less peaceable. However,  like many creatures that dwell in 
cold and darkness, they fear light a nd warmth, which we shall therefore call 
to our aid should the need arise. Fi re, Harry," Dumbledore added with a 
smile, in response to Harry's bewildered expression. 
 
"Oh . . . right. . ." said Harry quickly . He turned his head to look at the 
greenish glow toward which the boat wa s still inexorably sailing. He could 
not pretend now that he was not scared. The great black lake, teeming with the dead ... It seemed hours and hours ago that he had met Professor 
Trelawney, that he had given Ron an d Hermione Felix Felicis. . . . He 
suddenly wished he had said a better good-bye to them . . . and he hadn't 
seen Ginny at all. . . 
 
"Nearly there," said Dumbledore ch eerfully. Sure enough, the greenish 
light seemed to be growing larger at last, and within minutes, the boat had come to a halt, bumping gently into so mething that Harry could not see at 
first, but when he raised his illuminate d wand he saw that they had reached a 
small island of smooth rock in the cente r of the lake. "Careful not to touch 
the water," said Dumbledore again as  Harry climbed out of the boat. 
 
The island was no larger than Dumbledore' s office, an expanse of flat dark 
stone on which stood nothing but the source of that greenish light, which 
looked much brighter when viewed close to. Harry squinted at it; at first, he 
thought it was a lamp of some kind, but then he saw that the light was 
coming from a stone basin rather like the Pensieve, which was set on top of 
a pedestal. Dumbledore approached th e basin and Harry followed. Side by 
side, they looked down into it. The basin was full of an emerald liq-uid 
emitting that phosphorescent glow. 
 
"What is it?" asked Harry quietly. 
 
"I am not sure," said Dumbledore. "Something more worrisome than 
blood and bodies, however." Dumbledore pushed back the sleeve of his robe 
over his black-ened hand, a nd stretched out the tips of his burned fingers 
toward the surface of the potion.  
"Sir, no, don't touch — !" 
 
"I cannot touch," said Dumbledor e, smiling faintly. "See? I cannot 
approach any nearer than this. You try." 
 
Staring, Harry put his hand into th e basin and attempted to touch the 
potion. He met an invisible barrier that  prevented him comi ng within an inch 
of it. No matter how hard he pushed,  his fingers encountered nothing but 
what seemed to be solid and flexible air. 
 
"Out of the way, please, Harry," said  Dumbledore. He raised his wand and 
made complicated movements over the surface of the-potion, murmuring 
soundlessly. Nothing happened, except per haps that the potion glowed a 
little brighter. Harry remained silent while Dumbledore worked, but after a 
while Dumbledore with-drew his wand, and Harry felt it was safe to talk 
again. 
 
"You think the Horcrux is in there, sir?" 
 
"Oh yes." Dumbledore peered more clos ely into the basin. Harry saw his 
face reflected, upside down, in the sm ooth surface of the green potion. "But 
how to reach it? This potion cannot be pen-etrated by hand, Vanished, 
parted, scooped up, or siphoned away, nor can it be Transfigured, Charmed, 
or otherwise made to change its nature." Almost absentmindedly, 
Dumbledore raised his wand again, tw irled it once in midair, and then caught the crystal goblet that he had conjured out of nowhere. "I can only 
conclude that this potion is supposed to be drunk." 
 
"What?" said Harry. "No!" 
 
"Yes, I think so: Only by drinking it can I empty the basin and see what 
lies in its depths." 
 
"But what if— what if it kills you?" 
 
"Oh, I doubt that it would work like that," said Dumbledore easily. "Lord 
Voldemort would not want to kill the person who reached this island." Harry 
couldn't believe it. Was th is more of Dumbledore's insane determination to 
see good in everyone? 
 
"Sir," said Harry, trying to keep his voice reasonable, "sir, this is 
Voldemort we're —" 
 
"I'm sorry, Harry; I should have said, he would not want to im-mediately 
kill the person who reached this island, " Dumbledore corrected himself. "He 
would want to keep them alive long e nough to find out how they managed to 
penetrate so far through his de-fenses a nd, most importantly of all, why they 
were so intent upon emptying the basin. Do not forget that Lord Voldemort 
believes that he alone know s about his Horcruxes." 
 
Harry made to speak again, but this  time Dumbledore raised his hand for 
silence, frowning slightly at the em erald liquid, evidently thinking hard. "Undoubtedly," he said, finally, "this potion must act in a way that will 
prevent me taking the Horcrux. It might  paralyze me, cause me to forget 
what I am here for, create so much  pain I am dis-tracted, or render me 
incapable in some other way. This be ing the case, Harry, it will be your job 
to make sure I keep drinking, even if you have to tip the potion into my protesting mouth. You understand?" 
 
Their eyes met over the basin, each pale face lit with that strange, green 
light. Harry did not speak. Was this why he had been invited along — so that he could force-feed Dumbledore a po tion that might cause him unendurable 
pain? 
 
"You remember," said Dumbledore, "the condition on which I brought 
you with me?" 
 
Harry hesitated, looking into the blue eyes that had turned green in the 
reflected light of the basin. 
 
"But what if—?" 
 
"You swore, did you not, to fo llow any command I gave you?" 
 
"Yes, but—" 
 
"I warned you, did I not, th at there might be danger?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry, "but —"  
"Well, then," said Dumbledore, shak ing back his sleeves once more and 
raising the empty goblet, "you have my orders." 
 
"Why can't I drink the potion instead?" asked Harry desperately. 
 
"Because I am much older, much clev erer, and much less valuable," said 
Dumbledore. "Once and for all, Harry, do I have your word that you will do 
all in your power to ma ke me keep drinking?" 
 
"Couldn't — ?" 
 
"Do I have it?" 
 
"But—" 
 
"Your word, Harry." 
 
"I —all right, but—" 
 
Before Harry could make any further protest, Dumbledore low-ered the 
crystal goblet into the potion. For a sp lit second, Harry hoped that he would 
not be able to touch the potion with the gob-let, but the crystal sank into the 
surface as nothing else had; when the glass was full to the brim, Dumbledore 
lifted it to his mouth. "Your good health, Harry." 
 And he drained the goblet. Harry watc hed, terrified, his hands gripping 
the rim of the basin so hard that his fingertips were numb. 
 
"Professor?" he said anxiously, as Dumbledore lowered the empty glass. 
"How do you feel?" 
 
Dumbledore shook his head, his eyes closed. Harry wondered whether he 
was in pain. Dumbledore plunged the glass blindly back into the basin, 
refilled it, and drank once more. 
 
In silence, Dumbledore drank thr ee gobletsful of the potion. Then, 
halfway through the fourth goblet, he staggered and fell for-ward against the basin. His eyes were still closed, his breathing heavy. 
 
"Professor Dumbledore?" said Harry, his voice strained. "Can you hear 
me?" 
 
Dumbledore did not answer. His face was twitching as though he was 
deeply asleep, but dreaming a horribl e dream. His grip on the goblet was 
slackening; the potion was about to sp ill from it. Harry reached forward and 
grasped the crystal cup, holding it steady. "Professor, can you hear me?" he repeated loudly, his voice ec ho-ing around the cavern. 
 
Dumbledore panted and then spoke in  a voice Harry did not recognize, for 
he had never heard Dumble dore frightened like this. 
 
"I don't want. . . Don't make me ..."  
Harry stared into the whitened face he knew so well, at the crooked nose 
and half-moon spectacles, and did not know what to do. 
 
". . . don't like . . . want to st op . . ." moaned Dumbledore. 
 
"You . . . you can't stop, Professor," said Harry. "You've got to keep 
drinking, remember? You told me you had to keep drinking. Here . . ." 
Hating himself, repulsed by what he wa s doing, Harry forced the goblet back 
toward Dumbledore's mouth and tipped it, so that Dumbledore drank the remainder of the potion inside. 
 
"No ..." he groaned, as Harry lowere d the goblet back into the basin and 
refilled it for him. "I don't want to. ... I don't want to. . . . Let me go. . . ." 
 
"Its all right, Professor," said Harry, his hand shaking. "Its all right, I'm 
here —" 
 
"Make it stop, make it stop," moaned Dumbledore. 
 
"Yes.. . yes, this'll make it stop," lie d Harry. He tipped the con-tents of the 
goblet into Dumbledore's open mouth.  Dumbledore screamed; the noise 
echoed all around the vast chamber,  across the dead black water. 
 
"No, no, no, no, I can't, I can't, don' t make me, I don't warn to. . . ." 
 "It's all right, Professor, it's all right!" said Harry loudly, his hands 
shaking so badly he could hardly scoop up the sixth goblei ful of potion; the 
basin was now half empty.  "Nothing's happening to you, you're safe, it isn't 
real, I swear it isn't real — take th is, now, take this..." And obediently, 
Dumbledore drank, as though it was an  anti-dote Harry offered him, but 
upon draining the goblet, he sank to his knees, shaking uncontrollably. 
 
"Its all my fault, all my  fault," he sobbed. "Pl ease make it stop, I know I 
did wrong, oh please make it stop a nd I'll never, never again ..." 
 
"This will make it stop, Professor," Harry said, his voice crack-ing as he 
tipped the seventh glass of potion into Dumbledore's mouth. 
 
Dumbledore began to cower as though  invisible torturers sur-rounded 
him; his flailing hand almost knocked the refilled goblet from Harry's 
trembling hands as he moaned, "Don' t hurt them, don't hurt them, please, 
please, its my fault, hurt me instead ..." 
 
"Here, drink this, drink this, you'll be  all right," said Harry des-perately, 
and once again Dumbledore obeyed him, opening his mouth even as he kept 
his eyes tight shut and shook from head  to foot. And now he fell forward, 
screaming again, hammering his fists u pon the ground, while Harry filled the 
ninth goblet. 
 
"Please, please, please, no ... not that, not that, I'll do any-thing ..." 
 
"Just drink, Professor, just drink . . ."  
Dumbledore drank like a child dying of thirst, but when he had finished, 
he yelled again as though his insides were on fire. "No more, please, no 
more ..." 
 
Harry scooped up a tenth gobl etful of potion and felt the crystal scrape the 
bottom of the basin. "We're nearly there, Professor. Drink this, drink it. ..." 
 
He supported Dumbledore's shoulders and again, Dumbledore drained the 
glass; then Harry was on his feet once more, refilling the goblet as 
Dumbledore began to scream in more a nguish than ever, "I want to die! I 
want to die! Make it stop, make it stop, I want to die!" 
 
"Drink this, Professor. Drink this. . . ." 
 
Dumbledore drank, and no sooner had he  finished than he yelled, "KILL 
ME!" 
 
"This — this one will!" gasped Harry. "Jus t drink this .. . It'll be over ... all 
over!" Dumbledore gulped at the goblet, drained every last drop, and then, 
with a great, rattling gasp, rolled over onto his face. 
 
"No!" shouted Harry, who had stood to re fill the goblet again; instead he 
dropped the cup into the basin, flung  himself down beside Dumbledore, and 
heaved him over onto his back; Dumbledo re's glasses were askew, his mouth 
agape, his eyes closed. "No." said Harry, shaking Dumbledore, "no, you're 
not dead, you said it wasn't poison, wake up, wake up — Rennervate!" he cried, his wand pointing at Dumbledores chest; there was a flash of red light 
but nothing happened. "Rennervate — sir — please —" 
 
Dumbledores eyelids flickered; Harry 's heart leapt, "Sir, are you — ?" 
 
"Water," croaked Dumbledore. 
 
"Water," panted Harry. "Yes —" He leap t to his feet and seized the goblet 
he had dropped in the basi n; he barely registered the golden locket lying 
curled beneath it. 
 
"Aguamenti!" he shouted, jabbing the goblet with his wand. The goblet 
filled with clear water; Harry dropped to his kne es beside Dumbledore, 
raised his head, and brought the glass to his lips — but it was empty. 
Dumbledore groaned and began to pa nt. "But I had some — wait — 
Aguamenti!" said Harry again, pointing his wand at the goblet. Once more, 
for a second, clear wa-ter gleamed within it, but as he approached 
Dumbledores mouth, the water vanished again. "Sir, I'm trying, I'm trying!" 
said Harry desperately, but he did not think that Dumbledore could hear him; 
he had rolled onto his side and was drawing great, rattling breaths that 
sounded agoniz-ing. "Aguamenti —Aguamenti —AGUAMENTI!" 
 
The goblet filled and emptied on ce more. And now Dumble-dores 
breathing was fading. His brain whirling in  panic, Harry knew, instinctively, 
the only way left to get water, because Voldemort had planned it so ... He 
flung himself over to the edge of the rock and plunged the goblet into the 
lake, bringing it up full to the brim of icy water that did not vanish. "Sir — here!" Harry yelled, and lunging forwar d, he tipped the water clumsily over 
Dumbledores face. 
 
It was the best he could do, for th e icy feeling on his arm not holding the 
cup was not the lingering chill of the wa ter. A slimy white hand had gripped 
his wrist, and the creature to whom  it be-longed was pulling him, slowly, 
backward across the rock. The sur-face of the lake was no longer mirror-
smooth; it was churning, and everyw here Harry looked, white heads and 
hands were emerging from the dark water, men and women and children 
with sunken, sightless eyes were movi ng toward the rock: an army of the 
dead rising from the black water. 
 
"Petrificus Totalus!" yelled Harry, st ruggling to cling to the smooth, 
soaked surface of the island as he point ed his wand at the Inferius that had 
his arm. It released him, falling backwa rd into the water with a splash; he 
scrambled to his feet, but many more In feri were already climbing onto the 
rock, their bony hands clawing at its s lippery surface, their blank, frosted 
eyes upon him, trailing waterlogged rags, sunken faces leering. 
 
"Petrificus Totalus!" Harry bellowed ag ain, backing away as he swiped 
his wand through the air; six or seve n of them crumpled, but more were 
coming toward him. "Impedimenta! Incarcerous!" A few of them stumbled, one or two of them bound in ropes, but  those climbing onto the rock behind 
them merely stepped over or on the fa llen bodies. Still slashing at the air 
with his wand, Harry yelled, "S ectumsempra! SECTUMSEMPRA!" But 
though gashes appeared in their sodden rags and their icy skin, they had no 
blood to spill: They walked on, unfeelin g, their shrunken hands outstretched toward him, and as he backed away still farther, he felt arms enclose him 
from behind, thin, fleshlcv. arms cold as  death, and his f eet left the ground 
as they lifted him and began to carry him, slowly and surely, back to the 
water, anil he knew there would be no re lease, that he would be drowned, 
and become one more dead guardian of  a fragment of Voldemorts shattered 
soul... 
 
But then, through the darkness, fire erupted: crimson and gold, a ring of 
fire that surrounded the rock so that  the Inferi holding Harry so tightly 
stumbled and faltered; they did not dare  pass through the flames to get to the 
water. They dropped Harry; he hit th e ground, slipped on the rock, and fell, 
grazing his arms, then scrambled back up, raising his wand and staring 
around. 
 
Dumbledore was on his feet again, pale  as any of the surround-ing Inferi, 
but taller than any too, the fire dancing in his eyes; his wand was raised like 
a torch and from its tip emanated the flames, like a vast lasso, encircling 
them all with warmth. Th e Inferi bumped into each other, attempting, 
blindly, to es-cape the fire in which they were enclosed. . . . 
 
Dumbledore scooped the locket from th e bottom of the stone basin and 
stowed it inside his robes. Wordlessly, he gestured to Harry to come to his 
side. Distracted by the flames, the Inferi seemed unaware that their quarry 
was leaving as Dumbledore led Harry b ack to the boat, the ring of fire 
moving with them, around them, the be wildered Inferi accompanying them 
to the waters edge, where they slipped gr atefully back into their dark waters. 
 Harry, who was shaking all over, thoug ht for a moment that Dumbledore 
might not be able to climb into the boa t; he staggered a little as he attempted 
it; all his efforts seemed to be going into maintaining the ring of protective 
flame around them. Harry seized him and helped him back to his seat. Once 
they were both safely jammed inside again, the boat began to move back across the black water, away from the rock, still encircled by that ring of 
fire, and it seemed that the Inferi swarming below them did not dare resurface. 
 
"Sir," panted Harry, "sir, I forgot — about fire — they were coming at me 
and I panicked —" 
 
"Quite understandable," murmured Du mbledore. Harry was alarmed to 
hear how faint his voice was. 
 
They reached the bank with a little bum p and Harry leapt out, then turned 
quickly to help Dumbledore. The mo ment that Dum-bledore reached the 
bank he let his wand hand fall; the ring of fire vanished, but the Inferi did not emerge again from the water. Th e little boat sank into  the water once 
more; clanking and tinkling, its chain slithered back into the lake too. Dumbledore gave a great sigh and leaned against the cavern wall. 
 
"I am weak..." he said. 
 
"Don't worry, sir," said Harry at once, anxious about Dumbledore's 
extreme pallor and by his air of exhaustion. "Don't worry, I'll get us back. . . . Lean on me, sir. . . ."  
And pulling Dumbledore's uninjured arm around his shoulders, Harry 
guided his headmaster back around the lake, beari ng most of his weight. 
 
"The protection was . . . after all ... well-designed," said Dum-bledore 
faintly. "One alone could no t have done it. ... You di d well, very well, Harry. 
..." 
 
"Don't talk now," said Harry, feari ng how slurred Dumbledore's voice had 
become, how much his feet dragged. "Save your energy, sir. . . . We'll soon 
be out of here. . . ." 
 
"The archway will have sealed again. . . . My knife ..." ' 
 
"There's no need, I got cut on the rock ," said Harry firmly. "Just tell me 
where. . . ." 
 
"Here . . ." 
 
Harry wiped his grazed forearm upon the stone: Having re-ceived its 
tribute of blood, the archway reopene d instantly. They crossed the outer 
cave, and Harry helped Dumbledore back into the icy seawater that filled the 
crevice in the cliff. 
 
"It's going to be all right, sir," Ha rry said over and over again, more 
worried by Dumbledore's silence than he had been by his weakened voice. 
"We're nearly there. ... I can Apparate us both back . . . Don't worry. . . ."  
"I am not worried, Harry," said Du mbledore, his voice a little stronger 
despite the freezing water. "I am with you." 
CHAPTER 27
 
Once back under the starry sky, Harry  heaved Dumbledore on to the top 
of the nearest boulder and then to his feet. Sodden and shivering, 
Dumbledore's weight still upon him, Harry con- centrated harder than he had 
ever done upon his destination: Hogsmeade. Closing hi s eyes, gripping 
Dumbledore's arm as tightly as he could, he stepped forwards into that 
feeling of horrible compression. 
 
He knew it had worked before he opened his eyes: the smell of salt, the 
sea breeze had gone. He and Dumbledore were shivering and dripping in the 
middle of the dark High Street in Hogsmeade. For one horrible moment 
Harry's imagination showed him more  Inferi creeping towards him around 
the sides of shops, but he blinked and saw that noth-ing was stirring; all was 
still, the darkness complete but for a few streetlamps and lit upper windows. 
 
'We did it, Professor!' Harry whis pered with difficulty; he suddenly 
realised that he had a searing stitch in his chest. 'We did it! We got the 
Horcrux!' 
 
Dumbledore staggered against him. Fo r a moment, Harry thought that his 
inexpert Apparition had thrown Dumble dore off-balance; then he saw his 
face, paler and damper than ever in  the distant light of a streetlamp. 
 
'Sir, are you all right?' 
 'I've been better,' said Dumbledore weakly, though the corners of his 
mouth twitched. That potion ... was no health drink ..." 
 
And to Harry's horror, Dumbledore sank on to the ground. 
 
'Sir - it's OK, sir, you're going to be all right, don't worry -' 
 
He looked around desperately for help , but there was nobody to be seen 
and all he could think was that he must somehow get Dumbledore quickly to 
the hospital wing. 
 
'We need to get you up to the school, sir ... Madam Pomfrey ...' 
 
'No,' said Dumbledore. 'I t is ... Professor Snape whom I need ... but I do 
not think ... I can walk very far just yet ...' 
 
'Right - sir, listen - I'm going to knoc k on a door, find a place you can stay 
- then I can run and get Madam -' 
 
'Severus,' said Dumbledore cl early. 'I need Severus ...' 
 
'All right then, Snape - but I'm going to have to leave you for a moment so 
I can -' 
 
Before Harry could make a move, howev er, he heard run- ning footsteps. 
His heart leapt: somebody ha d seen, somebody knew they  needed help - and 
looking around he saw Madam Rosmerta scurrying down the dark street towards them on high-heeled, fluffy slippers, wearing a silk dressing-gown 
embroidered with dragons. 
 
'I saw you Apparate as I was pulling my bedroom curtains! Thank 
goodness, thank goodne ss, I couldn't think what to - but what's wrong with 
Albus?' 
 
She came to a halt, panting, and star ed down, wide-eyed, at Dumbledore. 
 
'He's hurt,' said Harry. 'Madam Rosm erta, can he come into the Three 
Broomsticks while I go up to the school and get help for him?' 
 
'You can't go up there alone! Don't you realise - haven't you seen -?' 
 
'If you help me support him,' said Harry , not listening to her, 'I think we 
can get him inside -' 
 
'What has happened?' as ked Dumbledore. 'Rosmerta, what's wrong?' 
 
The - the Dark Mark, Albus.' 
 
And she pointed into the sky, in th e direction of Hogwarts. Dread flooded 
Harry at the sound of the words ... he turned and looked. 
 
There it was, hanging in the sky a bove the school: the blaz- ing green 
skull with a serpent tongue, the mark Death Eaters le ft behind whenever they 
had entered a building ... wherev er they had murdered ...  
'When did it appear?' asked Dumbledore, and his hand clenched painfully 
upon Harry's shoulder as he struggled to his feet. 
 
'Must have been minutes ago, it wasn't there when I put the cat out, but 
when I got upstairs -' 
 
'We need to return to the castle at once,' said Dumbledore. 'Rosmerta,' and 
though he staggered a little, he seemed wholly in command of the situation, 
'we need transport - brooms -' 
 
'I've got a couple behind the bar,' she said, looking very frightened. 'Shall 
I run and fetch -?' 
 
'No, Harry can do it.' 
 
Harry raised his wand at once. 
 
'Accio Rosmerta's brooms.' 
 
A second later they heard a loud bang  as the front door of the pub burst 
open; two brooms had shot out into the street and were racing each other to 
Harry's side, where they stopped dead, quivering slightly, at waist height. 
 
'Rosmerta, please send a message to th e Ministry,' said Dumbledore, as he 
mounted the broom nearest him. 'It mi ght be that nobody within Hogwarts 
has yet realised anything is wrong ... Harry, put on your Invisibility Cloak.'  
Harry pulled his Cloak out of his pock et and threw it over himself before 
mounting his broom; Madam Rosmerta was already tottering back towards 
her pub as Harry and Dumble-dore kick ed off from the ground and rose up 
into the air. As they sped towards the castle, Harry glanced sideways at 
Dumbledore, ready to grab him should he fall, but the sight of the Dark 
Mark seemed to have acted upon Dumbledore like a stimulant: he was bent 
low over his broom, his eyes fixed upon the Mark, his long silver hair and 
beard flying behind him in the night air.  And Harry, too, looked ahead at the 
skull, and fear swelled inside him like a venomous bubble, compressing his 
lungs, driving all other discomfort from his mind ... 
 
How long had they been away? Had Ron, Hermione and Ginny's luck run 
out by now? Was it one of them who ha d caused the Mark to be set over the 
school, or was it Neville, or Luna, or so me other member of the DA? And if 
it was ... he was the one who had told them to patrol the corridors, he had 
asked them to leave the safety of th eir beds ... would he be responsible, 
again, for the death of a friend? 
 
As they flew over the dark, twisti ng lane down which they had walked 
earlier, Harry heard, over the whistling of the night air in his ears, 
Dumbledore muttering in some strange  language again. He thought he 
understood why as he felt his broom s hudder for a moment when they flew 
over the bound-ary wall into the gr ounds: Dumbledore was undoing the 
enchantments he himself had set around the castle, so that they could enter at 
speed. The Dark Mark was glittering directly above the Astronomy Tower, 
the highest of the castle. Did that  mean the death had occurred there?  
Dumbledore had already crossed th e crenellated ramparts and was 
dismounting; Harry landed next to him seconds later and looked around. 
 
The ramparts were deserted. The door to  the spiral staircase that led back 
into the castle was closed. There was no sign of a struggle, of a fight to the 
death, of a body. 
 
'What does it mean?' Harry asked Dumb ledore, looking up at the green 
skull with its serpent's tongue glinti ng evilly above them. 'Is it the real 
Mark? Has someone definitely been - Professor?' 
 
In the dim green glow from the Mark Harry saw Dumble-dore clutching at 
his chest with his blackened hand. 
 
'Go and wake Severus,' said Dumbledore faintly but clearly. Tell him 
what has happened and bring him to me. Do noth- ing else, speak to nobody 
else and do not remove your Cloak. I shall wait here.' 
 
'But -' 
 
'You swore to obey me, Harry - go!' 
 
Harry hurried over to the door leading to the spiral stair-case, but his hand 
had only just closed upon the iron ring of the door when he heard running 
footsteps on the other side. He looked round at Dumbledore, who gestured to 
him to retreat. Harry backed away , drawing his wand as he did so.  
The door burst open and somebody erupted through it and shouted: 
'Expelliarmus!' 
 
Harry's body became instantly rigid and immobile, and he felt himself fall 
back against the Tower wall, proppe d like an unsteady statue, unable to 
move or speak. He could not unders tand how it had happe ned - Expelliarmus 
was not a Freezing Charm - 
 
Then, by the light of the Mark, he saw Dumbledore's wand flying in an 
arc over the edge of the ramparts and under-stood ... Dumbledore had 
wordlessly immobilised Harry, and the second he had taken to perform the 
spell had cost him the chance of defending himself. 
 
Standing against the ramparts, very white in the face, Dumbledore still 
showed no sign of panic or distress. He  merely looked across at his disarmer 
and said, 'Good evening, Draco.' 
 
Malfoy stepped forwards, glancing around quickly to check that he and 
Dumbledore were alone. His eyes fell upon the second broom. 
 
'Who else is here?' 
 
'A question 1 might ask you. Or are you acting alone?' 
 
Harry saw Malfoy's pale eyes shift back to Dumbledore in the greenish 
glare of the Mark.  
'No,' he said. 'I've got back-up. There are Death Eaters he re in your school 
tonight.' 
 
'Well, well,' said Dumbledore, as  though Malfoy was show- ing him an 
ambitious homework project. 'Very good indeed. You found a way to let 
them in, did you?' 
 
'Yeah,' said Malfoy, who was panting. 'Right under your nose and you 
never realised!' 
 
'Ingenious,' said Dumbledore. 'Yet . .. forgive me ... where are they now? 
You seem unsupported.' 
 
They met some of your guard. They 're having a fight down below. They 
won't be long ... I came on ahead. I - I've got a job to do.' 
 
'Well, then, you must get on and do it, my dear boy,' said Dumbledore 
softly. 
 
There was silence. Harry stood imprisoned within his own invisible, 
paralysed body, staring at the two of th em, his ears straining to hear sounds 
of the Death Eaters' distant fight, a nd in front of him, Draco Malfoy did 
nothing but stare at Albus Dumbledore who, incredibly, smiled. 
 
'Draco, Draco, you are not a killer.' 
 'How do you know?' said Malfoy at once. 
 
He seemed to realise how childish the words had sounded; Harry saw him 
flush in the Mark's greenish light. 
 
'You don't know what I'm capable of,' said Malfoy more forcefully, 'you 
don't know what I've done!' 
 
'Oh, yes, I do,' said Dumbledore mild ly. 'You almost killed Katie Bell and 
Ronald Weasley. You have been trying, with increasing desperation, to kill 
me all year. Forgive me, Draco, but th ey have been feeble attempts ... so 
feeble, to be honest, that I wonder whethe r your heart has been really in it...' 
 
'It has been in it!' said Malfoy vehemently. 'I've been work- ing on it all 
year, and tonight -' 
 
Somewhere in the depths of the castle  below Harry heard a muffled yell. 
Malfoy stiffened and glanced over his shoulder. 
 
'Somebody is putting up a good fight,' said Dumbledore conversationally. 
'But you were saying ... ye s, you have man-aged to  introduce Death Eaters 
into my school which, I admit, I thought impossible ... how did you do it?' 
 
But Malfoy said nothing: he was still listening to whatever was happening 
below and seemed almost as  paralysed as Harry was. 
 'Perhaps you ought to get on with th e job alone,' suggested Dumbledore. 
'What if your back-up has been thwa rted by my guard? As you have perhaps 
realised, there are members of the Order of the Phoenix here tonight, too. 
And after all, you don' t really need help ... I have no wand at the moment ... I 
cannot defend myself.' 
 
Malfoy merely stared at him. 
 
'I see,' said Dumbledore kindly, when Malfoy neither 
moved nor spoke. 'You are afraid to act until they join 
you.'» 
 
'I'm not afraid!' snarled Malfoy, though he still made no move to hurt 
Dumbledore. 'It's you who should be scared!' 
 
'But why? I don't think you will kill me, Draco. Killing is  not nearly as 
easy as the innocent believe ... so tell  me, while we wait for your friends ... 
how did you smuggle them in here? It seems to have taken you a long time 
to work out how to do it.' 
 
Malfoy looked as though he was fighti ng down the urge to shout, or to 
vomit. He gulped and took several deep  breaths, glaring at Dumbledore, his 
wand pointing directly at the latter's heart. Then, as though he could not help 
himself, he said, '1 had to mend that broken Vanishing Cabinet that no one's 
used for years. The one Montague got lost in last year.' 
 
'Aaaah.'  
Dumbledore's sigh was half a groan. He closed his eyes for a moment. 
 
That was clever ... there is a pair, I take it?' 
 
'The other's in Borgin and Burkes,' said Malfoy, 'and they make a kind of 
passage between them . Montague told me that when he was stuck in the 
Hogwarts one, he was trapped in limbo but sometimes he could hear what 
was going on at school, and sometimes wh at was going on in the shop, as if 
the Cabinet was travelling between them , but he couldn't make anyone hear 
him ... in the end he managed to Apparate out, even though he'd never 
passed his test. He nearly died doing it. Everyone thought it was a really 
good story, but I was the only one who realised what it meant - even Borgin 
didn't know - 1 was the one who realised there could be a way into Hogwarts 
through the Cabinets if I fixed the broken one.' 
 
'Very good,' murmured Dumbledore. 'So the Death Eaters were able to 
pass from Borgin and Burkes into the school to help you ... a clever plan, a 
very clever plan ... and, as you say, right under my nose ...' 
 
'Yeah,' said Malfoy who, bizarrely, se emed to draw courage and comfort 
from Dumbledore's praise. 'Yeah, it was!' 
 
'But there were times,' Dumbledore we nt on, 'weren't there, when you 
were not sure you would succeed in me nding the Cabinet? And you resorted 
to crude and badly judged meas-ures su ch as sending me a cursed necklace that was bound to reach the wrong ha nds ... poisoning mead there was only 
the slightest chance I might drink ...' 
 
'Yeah, well, you still didn't realise w ho was behind that stuff, did you?' 
sneered Malfoy, as Dumbledore slid a little down the ramparts, the strength 
in his legs apparently fa ding, and Harry struggled fr uitlessly, mutely, against 
the enchantment binding him. 
 
'As a matter of fact, I did,' said Dumbledore. 'I was sure it was you.' 
 
'Why didn't you stop me, th en?' Malfoy demanded. 
 
'I tried, Draco. Professor Snape has been keeping watch over you on my 
orders -' 
 
'He hasn't been doing your orders , he promised my mother -' 
 
'Of course that is what he  would tell you, Draco, but -' 
 
'He's a double-agent, you stupid old ma n, he isn't working for you, you 
just think he is!' 
 
'We must agree to differ on that, Draco. It so happens that I trust Professor 
Snape -' 
 
'Well, you're losing your grip, then!' sneered Malfoy. 'He's been offering 
me plenty of help - wanting all the gl ory for himself - wanting a bit of the action - "What are you doing? Did you do the necklace, that was stupid, it 
could have blown everything -" But I haven't told him what I've been doing 
in the Room of Requirement, he's going to wake up tomorrow and it'll all be 
over and he won't be the Dark Lord's favourite any more, he'll be nothing 
compared to me, nothing!' 
 
'Very gratifying,' said Dumbledore m ildly. 'We all like* appreciation for 
our own hard work, of course ... but you must have had an accomplice, all 
the same ... someone in H ogsmeade, someone who was able to slip Katie the 
- the - aaaah 
 
Dumbledore closed his eyes again a nd nodded, as though he was about to 
fall asleep. 
 
'... of course ... Rosmerta. How l ong has she been under the Imperius 
Curse?' 
 
'Got there at last, have you?' Malfoy taunted. 
 
There was another yell from below, rath er louder than the last. Malfoy 
looked nervously over his shoulder again, then back at Dumbledore, who went on, 'So poor Rosmerta was forced  to lurk in her own bathroom and 
pass that necklace to any Hogwarts student who entered the room unaccompanied? And the poisoned mead  ... well, naturally, Rosmerta was 
able to poison it for you before she sent  the bottle to Slughorn, believing that 
it was to be my Christmas present ... ye s, very neat ... very neat ... poor Mr 
Filch would not, of course, think to ch eck a bottle of Rosmerta's ... tell me, how have you been communicating with Rosmerta? I thought we had all 
methods of communication in and out of the school monitored.' 
 
'Enchanted coins,' said Malfoy, as  though he was comp elled to keep 
talking, though his wand hand was shaking badly. 'I had one and she had the 
other and 1 could se nd her messages -' 
 
'Isn't that the secret method of communication the group that called 
themselves Dumbledore's Army used last year?' asked Dumbledore. His voice was light and conversational, but Harry saw him slip an inch lower 
down the wall as he said it. 
 
'Yeah, I got the idea from them,' said Malfoy, with a twisted smile. 'I got 
the idea of poisoning the mead from the Mudblood Gra nger, as well, I heard 
her talking in the library about Filch not recognising potions ...' 
 
Hogsmeade, someone who was able to slip Katie the - the - aaaah 
 
Dumbledore closed his eyes again a nd nodded, as though he was about to 
fall asleep. 
 
'... of course ... Rosmerta. How l ong has she been under the Imperius 
Curse?' 
 
'Got there at last, have you?' Malfoy taunted. 
 There was another yell from below, rath er louder than the last. Malfoy 
looked nervously over his shoulder again, then back at Dumbledore, who 
went on, 'So poor Rosmerta was forced  to lurk in her own bathroom and 
pass that necklace to any Hogwarts student who entered the room unaccompanied? And the poisoned mead  ... well, naturally, Rosmerta was 
able to poison it for you before she sent  the bottle to Slughorn, believing that 
it was to be my Christmas present ... ye s, very neat ... very neat ... poor Mr 
Filch would not, of course, think to ch eck a bottle of Rosmerta's ... tell me, 
how have you been communicating with Rosmerta? I thought we had all 
methods of communication in and out of the school monitored.' 
 
'Enchanted coins,' said Malfoy, as  though he was comp elled to keep 
talking, though his wand hand was shaking badly. 'I had one and she had the 
other and 1 could se nd her messages -' 
 
'Isn't that the secret method of communication the group that called 
themselves Dumbledore's Army used last year?' asked Dumbledore. His 
voice was light and conversational, but Harry saw him slip an inch lower 
down the wall as he said it. 
 
'Yeah, I got the idea from them,' said Malfoy, with a twisted smile. 'I got 
the idea of poisoning the mead from the Mudblood Gra nger, as well, I heard 
her talking in the library about Filch not recognising potions ...' 
 
'Please do not use that offensive word in front of me,' said Dumbledore. 
 
Malfoy gave a harsh laugh.  
'You care about me saying "Mudblood"  when I'm about to kill you?' 
 
'Yes, I do,' said Dumbledore, and Harry saw his feet slide a little on the 
floor as he struggled to remain upright.  'But as for being about to kill me, 
Draco, you have had several long minut es now. We are quite alone. I am 
more defenceless than you can have dreamed of finding me, and still you 
have not acted ...' 
 
Malfoy's mouth contorted involuntar ily, as though he had tasted 
something very bitter. 
 
'Now, about tonight,' Dumbledore went  on, 'I am a little puzzled about 
how it happened ... you knew th at I had left the school ? But of course,' he 
answered his own question, 'Rosmert a saw me leaving, she tipped you off 
using your ingenious coins, I'm sure ...' 
 
'That's right,' said Malfoy. 'But she said you were just going for a drink, 
you'd be back ...' 
 
'Well, I certainly did have a drink ... and I came back ... after a fashion,' 
mumbled Dumbledore. 'So you decide d to spring a trap for me?' 
 
'We decided to put the Dark Mark over the Tower and get you to hurry up 
here, to see who'd been killed, ' said Malfoy. 'And it worked!' 
 'Well ... yes and no ...' said Dumbledore.  'But am I to take it, then, that 
nobody has been murdered?' 
 
'Someone's dead,' said Malfoy and his voice seemed to go up an octave as 
he said it. 'One of your people ... I don' t know who, it was dark ... I stepped 
over the body ... I was* supposed to be waiting up here when you got back, 
only your Phoenix lot got in the way ...' 
 
'Yes, they do that,' said Dumbledore. 
 
There was a bang and shout s from below, louder than ever; it sounded as 
though people were fighting on the actual spiral staircase that led to where 
Dumbledore, Malfoy and Harry stood, and Harry's heart thundered unheard 
in his invisible chest ... someone wa s dead ... Malfoy had stepped over the 
body ... but who was it? 
 
There is little time, one way or another,' said Dumble dore. 'So let us 
discuss your options, Draco.' 
 
'My options!' said Malfoy loudly. 'I 'm standing here with a wand - I'm 
about to kill you -' 
 
'My dear boy, let us have no more pretence about that. If you were going 
to kill me, you would have done it when you first Disarmed me, you would 
not have stopped for this pleasan t chat about ways and means.' 
 'I haven't got any op tions!' said Malfoy, and he was sud- denly as white as 
Dumbledore. 'I've got to do it! He'll kill me! He'll kill my whole family!' 
 
'I appreciate the difficulty of your  position,' said Dumbledore. 'Why else 
do you think I have not confronted you before now? Beca use I knew that 
you would have been murdered if Lord Voldemort realised that I suspected 
you.' 
 
Malfoy winced at the sound of the name. 
 
'I did not dare speak to you of the mission with which I knew you had 
been entrusted, in case he used Legilimency against you,' continued 
Dumbledore. 'But now at last we can speak plainly to each other ... no harm 
has been done, you have hurt nobody, th ough you are very lucky that your 
unintentional victims survived  ... I can help you, Draco.' 
 
'No, you can't,' said Malfoy, his wa nd hand shaking very badly indeed. 
'Nobody can. He told me to do it or he'll kill me. I've got no choice.' 
 
'Come over to the right side, Draco, a nd we can hide you more completely 
than you can possibly imagine. What is more, I can send members of the 
Order to your mother tonight to hide her likewise. Your father is safe at the 
moment in Azkaban ... when the time comes we can protect him too ... come 
over to the right side, Draco ... you are not a killer ...' 
 
Malfoy stared at Dumbledore. 
 'But I got this far, didn' t I?' he said slowly. They thought I'd die in the 
attempt, but I'm here ... and you're in my power ... I'm the one with the wand 
... you're at my mercy ...' 
 
'No, Draco,' said Dumbledore quietly. 'I t is my mercy, and not yours, that 
matters now.' 
 
Malfoy did not speak. His mouth was open, his wand hand still trembling. 
Harry thought he saw it drop by a fraction - 
 
But suddenly footsteps were thundering  up the stairs and a second later 
Malfoy was buffeted out of the way as four people in black robes burst 
through the door on to the ram-parts. Still paralysed, his eyes staring 
unblinkingly, Harry gazed in terror upon four strangers: it seemed the Death 
Eaters had won the fight below. 
 
A lumpy-looking man with an odd lopsid ed leer gave a wheezy giggle. 
 
'Dumbledore cornered!' he said, and he turned to a stocky little woman 
who looked as though she could be his sister and who was grinning eagerly. 'Dumbledore wandless, Dumbledore al one! Well done, Draco, well done!' 
 
'Good evening, Amycus,' said Dumb ledore calmly, as though welcoming 
the man to a tea party. 'And you've  brought Alecto too ... charming ...' 
 
The woman gave an angry little titter. 
 Think your little jokes'll help you on your  death bed, then?' she jeered. 
 
'Jokes? No, no, these are ma nners,' replied Dumbledore. 
 
'Do it,' said the stranger standing near est to Harry, a big, rangy man with 
matted grey hair and whiskers, whos e black Death Eater's robes looked 
uncomfortably tight. He had a voice like none that Harry had ever heard: a 
rasping bark of a voice. Harry could smell a powerful mixture of dirt, sweat 
and, unmistakeably, of blood coming fr om him. His filthy hands had long 
yellowish nails. 
 
'Is that you, Fenrir?' asked Dumbledore. 
 
That's right,' rasped the other. 'Pleased to see me, Dumbledore?' 
 
'No, I cannot say that I am ...' 
 
Fenrir Greyback grinned, showing po inted teeth. Blood trickled down his 
chin and he licked his lips slowly, obscenely. 
 
'But you know how much I like kids, Dumbledore.' 
 
'Am I to take it that you are attacking even without the full moon now? 
This is most unusual ... you have deve loped a taste for human flesh that 
cannot be satisfied once a month?' 
 That's right,' said Greyback. 'Shoc ks you, that, does it, Dumbledore? 
Frightens you?' 
 
'Well, I cannot pretend it does not di sgust me a little,' said Dumbledore. 
'And, yes, I am a little shocked that Dr aco here invited you, of all people, 
into the school where his friends live...' 
 
'I didn't,' breathed Malfoy. He was not looking at Greyback; he did not 
seem to want to even glance at him. 'I didn't know he was going to come -' 
 
'I wouldn't want to miss a trip to Hogwarts, Dumbledore,' rasped 
Greyback. 'Not when there are throats to be ripped out ... delicious, delicious 
...' 
 
And he raised a yellow fingernail and pi cked at his front teeth, leering at 
Dumbledore. 
 
'1 could do you for afters, Dumbledore ...' 
 
'No,' said the fourth Death Eater shar ply. He had a heavy, brutal-looking 
face. 'We've got orders. Draco's got to do it. Now, Draco, and quickly.' 
 
Malfoy was showing less re solution than ever. He looked terrified as he 
stared into Dumbledore's face, which was even paler, and rather lower than 
usual, as he had slid so  far down the rampart wall. 
 'He's not long for this world anyway, if you ask me!' said the lopsided 
man, to the accompaniment of his sist er's wheezing giggles. 'Look at him - 
what's happened to you, then, Dumby?' 
 
'Oh, weaker resistance, slower reflex es, Amycus,' said Dumbledore. 'Old 
age, in short ... one day, perhaps, it will happen to you ... if you are lucky ...' 
 
'What's that mean, then, what's that  mean?' yelled the Death Eater, 
suddenly violent. 'Always the same, weren't yeh, Dumby, talking and doing 
nothing, nothing, I don't even know w hy the Dark Lord's bothering to kill 
yeh! Come on, Draco, do it!' 
 
But at that moment, there were rene wed sounds of scuffling from below 
and a voice shouted, 'They've blocke d the stairs - Reducto! REDUCTO!' 
 
Harry's heart leapt: so these four had not eliminated all opposition, but 
merely broken through the fight to the t op of the Tower, and, by the sound of 
it, created a barrier behind them - 
 
'Now, Draco, quickly!' said the brutal-faced man angrily. 
 
But Malfoy's hand was shaking so ba dly that he could barely aim. 
 
Til do it,' snarled Greyback, moving towards Dumbledore with his hands 
outstretched, his teeth bared. 
 'I said no!' shouted the brutal-faced man; there was a flash of light and the 
werewolf was blasted out of the way; he hit the ramparts and staggered, 
looking furious. Harry's heart was hammering so hard it seemed impossible 
that nobody could hear him standing there, imprisoned by Dumbledore's 
spell -if he could only move, he c ould aim a curse from under the Cloak - 
 
'Draco, do it, or stand aside so one of  us -' screeched the woman, but at 
that precise moment the door to the ra mparts burst open once more and there 
stood Snape, his wand clutched in hi s hand as his black eyes swept the 
scene, from Dumbledore slumped against the wall, to the four Death Eaters, 
including the enraged werewolf, and Malfoy. 
 
'We've got a problem, Snape,' said the lumpy Amycus, whose eyes and 
wand were fixed alike upon Dumbledore, 'the boy doesn't seem able -' 
 
But somebody else had spoken Snape's name, quite softly. 
 
'Severus ...' 
 
The sound frightened Harry beyond a nything he had experienced all 
evening. For the first time, Dumbledore was pleading. 
 
Snape said nothing, but walked forw ards and pushed Malfoy roughly out 
of the way. The three De ath Eaters fell back without a word. Even the 
werewolf seemed cowed. 
 Snape gazed for a moment at Dumble dore, and there was revulsion and 
hatred etched in the harsh lines of his face. 
 
'Severus ... please ..." 
 
Snape raised his wand and point ed it directly at Dumbledore. 
 
'Avada Kedavra!' 
 
A jet of green light shot from the end of Snape's wand and hit 
Dumbledore squarely in the chest. Harry's  scream of horror  never left him; 
silent and unmoving, he was forced to  watch as Dumbledore was blasted 
into the air: for a split second he seemed to hang suspended beneath the 
shining skull, and then he fell slowly backwards, like a great rag doll, over 
the battlements and out of sight. 
CHAPTER 28 
 
Harry felt as though he too were hurtling through space; it had not 
happened. . . . It coul d not have happened. ... 
 
"Out of here, quickly," said Snape. 
 
He seized Malfoy by the scruff of the neck and forced him through the 
door ahead of the rest; Greyback and th e squat brother and sister followed, 
the latter both panting excitedly. As th ey vanished through the door, Harry 
realized he could move again. What  was now holding him paralyzed against 
the wall was not magic, but horror a nd shock. He threw the Invisibility 
Cloak aside as the brutal-faced Death Eate r, last to leave the tower top, was 
disappearing through the door. 
 
"Petrificus Totalus!" 
 
The Death Eater buckled as though hit in the back with something solid 
and fell to the ground, rigid as a waxw ork, but he had barely hit the floor 
when Harry was clambering over him and running down the darkened 
staircase. 
 
Terror tore at Harry;s heart. ... He ha d to get to Dumbledore and he had to 
catch Snape. ... Somehow the two thin gs were linked. ... He could reverse 
what had happened if he had them both together. ... Dumbledore could not 
have died. ... 
 He leapt the last ten steps of the spiral staircase and stopped where he 
landed, his wand raised. The dimly lit corridor was full of dust; half the 
ceiling seemed to have fallen in; and a battle was raging before him, but 
even as he attempted to make out who were fighting whom, he heard the 
hated voice shout, "It's over, time to go!" and saw Snape disappearing 
around the corner at the far end of th e corridor; he and Malfoy seemed to 
have forced their way through the fight  unscathed. As Harry plunged after 
them, one of the fighters detached them selves from the fray and flew at him: 
it was the werewolf, Fenrir. He was on to p of Harry before Harry could raise 
his wand: Harry fell backward, with filth y matted hair in his face, the stench 
of sweat and blood filling his nose and m outh, hot greedy breath at his throat 
- 
 
"Petrificus Totalus!" 
 
Harry felt Fenrir collapse against him;  with a stupendous effort he pushed 
the werewolf off and onto the floor as a jet of green light came flying toward 
him; he ducked and ran, headfirst, in to the fight. His feet met something 
squashy and slippery on the floor and he stumbled: There were two bodies lying there, lying facedown in a pool of blood, but there was no time to 
investigate. Harry now saw red hair flyi ng like flames in front of him: Ginny 
was locked in combat with the lumpy Death Eater, Amycus, who was 
throwing hex after hex at her while she dodged them: Amycus was giggling, 
enjoying the sport: "Crucio - Crucio - you can't dance forever, pretty-" 
 
"Impedimenta!" yelled Harry. 
 His jinx hit Amycus in the chest: He gave a piglike squeal of pain, was 
lifted off his feet and slammed into th e opposite wall, slid  down it, and fell 
out of sight behind Ron, Professor McG onagall, and Lupin, each of whom 
was battling a separate Death Eater. Beyond them, Harry saw Tonks fighting 
an enormous blond wizard who was send ing curses flying in all directions, 
so that they ricocheted off the walls  around them, cracking stone, shattering 
the nearest window - 
 
"Harry, where did you come from?" Gi nny cried, but there was no time to 
answer her. He put his head down and sprinted forward, narrowly avoiding a 
blast that erupted over his head, shower ing them all in bits of wall. Snape 
must not escape, he must  catch up with Snape - 
 
"Take that!" shouted Professor Mc Gonagall, and Harry glimpsed the 
female Death Eater, Alecto, sprinting away down the corridor with her arms 
over her head, her brother right behind her. He launched himself after them 
but his foot caught on something, an d next moment he was lying across 
someone's legs. Looking around, he saw Neville's pale, round face flat 
against the floor. "Neville, are you - ?" 
 
"M'all right," muttered Neville, who was clutching his stomach, "Harry . . 
. Snape 'n' Malfoy . . . ran past. . ." 
 
"I know, I'm on it!" said Harry, aiming a hex from the floor at the 
enormous blond Death Eater who was ca using most of th e chaos. The man 
gave a howl of pain as the spell h it him in the face: He wheeled around, 
staggered, and then pounded away af ter the brother and sister. Harry scrambled up from the floor and began to  sprint along the corridor, ignoring 
the bangs issuing from behind him, the ye lls of the others to come back, and 
the mute call of the figures on the ground  whose fate he did not yet know. . . 
. 
 
He skidded around the corner, his traine rs slippery with blood; Snape had 
an immense head start. Was it possibl e that he had already entered the 
cabinet in the Room of Requirement, or had the Order made steps to secure 
it, to prevent the Death Eaters retreati ng that way? He c ould hear nothing but 
his own pounding feet, his own hammering heart as he sprinted along the next empty corridor, but then spotted a bloody footprint that showed at least 
one of the fleeing Death Eaters was head ing toward the front doors - perhaps 
the Room of Requirement  was indeed blocked - 
 
He skidded around another corner and a curse flew past him; he dived 
behind a suit of armor that exploded. He  saw the brother and sister running 
down the marble staircase ahead and ai med jinxes at them, but merely hit 
several bewigged witches in a portra it on the landing, who ran screeching 
into neighboring paintings. As he leap t the wreckage of armor, Harry heard 
more shouts and screams; other peopl e within the castle seemed to have 
awoken. . . . 
 
He pelted toward a shortcut , hoping to overtake th e brother and sister and 
close in on Snape and Malfoy, who must surely have reached the grounds by 
now. Remembering to leap the vanishin g step halfway down the concealed 
staircase, he burst through a tapestry at the bottom and out into a corridor 
where a number of bewildered a nd pajama-clad Hufflepuffs stood.  
"Harry! We heard a noise, and someon e said something aboui the Dark 
Mark -" began Ernie Macmillan. 
 
"Out of the way!" yelled Harry, knocki ng two boys aside as he sprinted 
toward the landing and down the remainde r of the marble staircase. The oak 
front doors had been blasted open, there were smears of blood on the 
flagstones, and several terrified stude nts stood huddled against the walls, one 
or two still cowering with their arms over their faces. The giant Gryffindor hourglass had been hit by a curse, and the rubies within were still falling, 
with a loud rattle, onto the flagstones below. 
 
Harry flew across the entrance hall an d out into the dark grounds: He 
could just make out three figures r acing across the lawn, heading for the 
gates beyond which they coul d Disapparate - by the l ooks of them, the huge 
blond Death Eater and, some way ahead of him, Snape and Malfoy. ... 
 
The cold night air ripped at Harry's lungs as he tore after them; he saw a 
flash of light in the distance that momentarily silhouetted his quarry. He did 
not know what it was but continued to  run, not yet near enough to get a good 
aim with a curse - 
 
Another flash, shouts, retaliatory jets of light, and Harry understood: 
Hagrid had emerged from his cabin and was trying to stop the Death Eaters 
escaping, and though every breath seemed to shred his lungs and the stitch in 
his chest was like fire, Harry sped up as  an unbidden voice in his head said: 
not Hagrid. . . not Hagrid too . . .  
Something caught Harry hard in the sma ll of the back and he fell forward, 
his face smacking the ground, blood po uring out of both nostrils: He knew, 
even as he rolled over, his wand ready,  that the brother and sister he had 
overtaken using his shortcut were closing in behind him. . . . 
 
"Impedimenta!" he yelled as he rolle d over again, crouching close to the 
dark ground, and miraculously his ji nx hit one of them, who stumbled and 
fell, tripping up the other; Harry leapt to  his feet and sprinted on after Snape. 
 
And now he saw the vast outline of Ha grid, illuminated by the light of the 
crescent moon revealed suddenly behi nd clouds; the blond Death Eater was 
aiming curse after curse at the game keeper; but Hagrids immense strength 
and the toughened skin he had inherite d from his giantess mother seemed to 
be protecting him. Snape and Malfoy,  however, were still running; they 
would soon be beyond the gate s, able to Disapparate - 
 
Harry tore past Hagrid and his oppo nent, took aim at Snape's back, and 
yelled, "Stupefy!" 
He missed; the jet of red light soar ed past Snape's head; Snape shouted, 
"Run, Draco!"and turned. Twenty yards apart, he and Harry looked at each 
other before raising their wands simultaneously. 
 
"Cruc - " 
 
But Snape parried the curse, knocking Ha rry backward off his feet before 
he could complete it; Harry  rolled over and scrambled back up again as the huge Death Eater behind hi m yelled, "Incendio!" Ha rry heard an explosive 
bang and a dancing orange light spilled over all of them: Hagrid's house was 
on fire. 
 
"Fang's in there, yer ev il - !" Hagrid bellowed. 
 
"Cruc -" yelled Harry fo r the second time, aiming for the figure ahead 
illuminated in the dancing firelight, but Snape blocked the spell again. Harry 
could see him sneering. 
 
"No Unforgivable Curses from you, Potter!" he shouted over the rushing 
of the flames, Hagrid's yells, and the wild yelping of the trapped Fang. "You 
haven't got the nerve or the ability -" 
 
"Incarc-"Harry roared, but  Snape deflected the spe ll with an almost lazy 
flick of his arm. 
 
"Fight back!" Harry screamed at him. "Fight back, you cowardly-----" 
 
"Coward, did you call me, Potter?" sh outed Snape. "Your father would 
never attack me unless it was four on one, what would you call him, I 
wonder?" "Stupe-" 
 
"Blocked again and again and again until you learn to keep your mouth 
shut and your mind closed, Potter!" sn eered Snape, deflecting the curse once 
more. "Now come!" he shouted at th e huge Death Eater behind Harry. "It is 
time to be gone, before the Ministry turns up -"  
"Impedi -" 
 
But before he could finish this jinx, excruciating pain hit Harry; he keeled 
over in the grass. Someone was screaming, he would surely die of this 
agony, Snape was going to torture him to death or madness - 
 
"No!" roared Snape's voice and the pain stopped as suddenly as it had 
started; Harry lay curled on the dark grass, clutching his wand and panting; 
somewhere overhead Snape was shouting, "Have you forgotten our orders? 
Potter belongs to the Dark Lord - we are to leave him! Go! Go!" 
 
And Harry felt the ground shudder under hi s face as the brother and sister 
and the enormous Death Eater obeyed,  running toward the gates. Harry 
uttered an inarticulate yell of rage: In that instant, he cared not whether he 
lived or died. Pushing himself to his feet again, he staggered blindly toward Snape, the man he now hated as much  as he hated Voldemort himself - 
 
"Sectum - " 
 
Snape flicked his wand and the curse was repelled yet again; but Harry 
was mere feet away now and he could see Snape's face clearly at last: He 
was no longer sneering or jeering; the blazing flames showed a face full of 
rage. Mustering all his powers of c oncentration, Harry thought, Levi - 
 
"No, Potter!" screamed Snape. Th ere was a loud BANG and Harry was 
soaring backward, hitting the ground hard again, ;un\ this time his wand flew out of his hand. He could hear Hagr id yelling and Fang howling as Snape 
closed in and looked down on him wher e he lay, wandless and defenseless 
as Dumbledore hadl been. Snape's pale face, illuminated by the flaming 
cabin, was suffused with hatred just as it had been before he had cursed 
Dumbledore. 
 
"You dare use my own spells against me, Potter? It was I who invented 
them - I, the Half-Blood Prince! And you'd turn my inventions on me, like 
your filthy father, would you?  I don't think so . . . no" 
 
Harry had dived for his wand; Snape shot  a hex at it and it flew feet away 
into the darkness and out of sight. 
 
"Kill me then," panted Harry, who felt no  fear at all, but only rage and 
contempt. "Kill me like you k illed him, you coward -" 
 
"DON'T -" screamed Snape, and his face was suddenly demented, 
inhuman, as though he was in as much  pain as the yelping, howling dog 
stuck in the burning house behind them - "CALL ME COWARD!" 
 
And he slashed at the air: Harry fe lt a white-hot, whiplike something hit 
him across the face and was slammed b ackward into the ground. Spots of 
light burst in front of his eyes and fo r a moment all the breath seemed to 
have gone from his body, then he hear d a rush of wings above him and 
something enormous obscured the stars.  Buckbeak had flown at Snape, who 
staggered backward as the razor-sharp cl aws slashed at him. As Harry raised 
himself into a sitting position, his head still swimming from its last contact with the ground, he saw Snape running as  hard as he coul d, the enormous 
beast flapping behind him and screec hing as Harry had never heard him 
screech - 
 
Harry struggled to his feet, looki ng around groggily for his wand, hoping 
to give chase again, but even as his fingers fumbled in the grass, discarding 
twigs, he knew it would be  too late, and sure e nough, by the time he had 
located his wand, he turned only to see the hippogriff circling the gates. 
Snape had managed to Disapparate  just beyond the school's boundaries. 
 
"Hagrid," muttered Harry, still da zed, looking around. "HAGRID?" 
 
He stumbled toward the burning hous e as an enormous figure emerged 
from out of the flames carrying Fa ng on his back. With a cry of 
thankfulness, Harry sank to his knees; he was shaking in every limb, his 
body ached all over, and his br eath came in painful stabs. 
 
"Yeh all righ', Harry? Yeh all ri gh'? Speak ter me, Harry. . .." 
 
Hagrids huge, hairy face  was swimming above Harry, blocking out the 
stars. Harry could smell burnt wood and dog hair; he put out  a hand and felt 
Fang's reassuringly warm and a live body quivering beside him. 
 
"I'm all right," panted Harry. "Are you?" "'Course I am . . . take more'n 
that ter finish me." 
 Hagrid put his hands under Harry's ar ms and raised him up with such 
force that Harry's feet mo mentarily left the ground  before Hagrid set him 
upright again. He could see blood tric kling down Hagrid's cheek from a deep 
cut under one eye, which was swelling rapidly. 
 
"We should put out your house," said Harry, "the charm's 'Aguamenti' ..." 
 
"Knew it was summat like that," mu mbled Hagrid, and he raised a 
smoldering pink, flowery umbr ella and said, "Aguamenti!" 
 
A jet of water flew out of the umbr ella tip. Harry raised his wand arm, 
which felt like lead, and murmured "Aguamenti" too: Together, he and 
Hagrid poured water on the house until the last flame was extinguished. 
 
"S'not too bad," said Hagrid hopefully a few minutes later, looking at the 
smoking wreck. "Nothin Dumbledore won'  be able to put righ' . . ." 
 
Harry felt a searing pain in his stom ach at the sound of the name. In the 
silence and the stillness, horror rose inside him. 
 
"Hagrid ..." 
 
"I was bindin' up a couple o' bowtruckle legs when I heard 'em coming," 
said Hagrid sadly, still st aring at his wrecked cabin. "They'll bin burnt ter 
twigs, poor little things. . . ." 
 
"Hagrid . . ."  
"But what happened, Harry? I jus' sa w them Death Eaters run-nin down 
from the castle, but what the ruddy hell was Snape doin' with 'em? Where's 
he gone - was he chasin' them?" 
 
"He . . ." Harry cleared his throat; it was dry from panic and the smoke. 
"Hagrid, he killed . . ." 
 
"Killed?" said Hagrid loudly, stari ng down at Harry. "Snape killed? 
What're yeh on abou', Harry?" 
 
"Dumbledore," said Harry. "S nape killed .. . Dumbledore." 
 
Hagrid simply looked at him, the little of his face that could be seen 
completely blank, uncomprehending. 
 
"Dumbledore wha, Harry?" 
 
"He's dead. Snape killed him...." 
 
"Don' say that," said Hagrid roughly . "Snape kill Dumbledore - don' be 
stupid, Harry. Wha's made yeh say tha'?" 
 
"I saw it happen." , ,.. 
 
"Yeh couldn' have." 
 "I saw it, Hagrid." 
 
Hagrid shook his head; his expressi on was disbelieving but sympathetic, 
and Harry knew that Hagrid thought he  had sustained a blow to the head, 
that he was confused, perhaps by the aftereffects of a jinx. ... 
 
"What musta happened was, Dumbledor e musta told Snape ter go with 
them Death Eaters," Hagrid said confid ently. "I suppose he's gotta keep his 
cover. Look, let's get yeh back up ter the school. Come on, Harry. ..." 
 
Harry did not attempt to argue or  explain. He was still shaking 
uncontrollably. Hagrid would find out soon enough, too soon. ... As they 
directed their steps back toward the castle, Harry saw that many of its 
windows were lit now. He could imagine, clearly, the scenes inside as 
people moved from room to room, telli ng each other that Death Eaters had 
got in, that the Mark was shining over Hogwarts, that somebody must have 
been killed. . . . 
 
The oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light flooding out onto the 
drive and the lawn. Slowly, uncerta inly, dressing-gowned people were 
creeping down the steps, looking arou nd nervously for some sign of the 
Death Eaters who had fled into the ni ght. Harry's eyes, however, were fixed 
upon the ground at the foot of the tallest  tower. He imagined that he could 
see a black, huddled mass lying in the gr ass there, though he was really too 
far away to see anything of the sort. Even as he stared wordlessly at the 
place where he thought 
 Dumbledore's body must lie, however, he  saw people beginning to move 
toward it. 
 
"What're they all lookin' at?" said Ha grid, as he and Harry approached the 
castle front, Fang keeping as close as he could to their ankles. "Wha's that 
lyin' on the grass?" Hagrid added sharpl y, heading now toward the foot of 
the Astronomy Tower, where a small crowd was congregating. "See it, Harry? Right at the foot of  the tower? Under where th e Mark . . . Blimey . . . 
yeh don' think someone got thrown - ?" 
 
Hagrid fell silent, the thought apparently too ho rrible to express aloud. 
Harry walked alongside him, feeling th e aches and pains in his face and his 
legs where the various hexes of the last  half hour had hit him, though in an 
oddly detached way, as though somebody near him was suffering them. 
What was real and inescapable was the aw ful pressing feeling in his chest. . . 
. 
 
He and Hagrid moved, dreamlike, through the murmuring crowd to the 
very front, where the dumbstruck stude nts and teachers had left a gap. 
 
Harry heard Hagrid's moan of pain and shock, but he did not stop; he 
walked slowly forward until he reach ed the place where Dumbledore lay and 
crouched down beside hi m. He had known ther e was no hope from the 
moment that the full Body-Bind Curse Dumbledore had placed upon him 
lifted, known that it could have happe ned only because its caster was dead, 
but there was still no preparation for seeing him here, spread-eagled, broken: the greatest wizard Harry had ever, or would ever, meet.  
Dumbledore's eyes were closed; but fo r the strange angle of his arms and 
legs, he might have been sleeping. Ha rry reached out, straightened the half-
moon spectacles upon the crooked nose, and wiped a trickle of blood from 
the mouth with his own sleeve. Then he  gazed down at the wise old face and 
tried to absorb the enormous and inco mprehensible truth: that never again 
would Dumbledore speak to him, never again could he help----- 
 
The crowd murmured behind Harry. Af ter what seemed like a long time, 
he became aware that he was knee ling upon something hard and looked 
down. 
 
The locket they had managed to steal so many hours befo re had fallen out 
of Dumbledore's pocket. It had opened, perhaps due to the force with which 
it hit the ground. And although he coul d not feel more shock or horror or 
sadness than he felt already, Harry knew, as he picked it up, that there was 
something wrong----- 
 
He turned the locket over in his hand s. This was neither as large as the 
locket he remembered seeing in the Pensieve, nor were there any markings 
upon it, no sign of the ornate S that was supposed to be Slytherins mark. 
Moreover, there was nothing inside but  for a scrap of folded parchment 
wedged tightly into th e place where a portra it should have been. 
 
Automatically, without really thinki ng about what he was doing, Harry 
pulled out the fragment of parchment, opened it, and read by the light of the 
many wands that had now been lit behind him:  
To the Dark Lord 
 
I now I will be dead long before you read this but I want you to know that 
it was I who dicovered your secret. I have  stolen the real Horcrux and intend 
to destroy it as soon as I can. 
 
I face death in the hope that when  you meet your match you will be 
mortal once more. 
 
R.A.B. 
 
Harry neither knew nor cared what th e message meant. Only one thing 
mattered: This was not a Horcrux. Dumbledore had weak ened himself by 
drinking that terrible potion for nothi ng. Harry crumpled the parchment in 
his hand, and his eyes burned with t ears as behind him Fang began to howl. 
CHAPTER 29
 
C 'mere, Harry ..." 
 
"No." 
 
"Yeh can' stay here, Harry. ... Come on, now...." "No." 
 
He did not want to leave Dumbledores  side, he did not want to move 
anywhere. Hagrid's hand on his shoulder  was trembling. Then another voice 
said, "Harry, come on." 
 
A much smaller and warmer hand ha d enclosed his and was pulling him 
upward. He obeyed its pressure without really thinking about it. Only as he 
walked blindly back through the crowd did he realize, from a trace of 
flowery scent on the air, that it wa s Ginny who was leading him back into 
the castle. Incomprehensible voices battered him, sobs and shouts and wails 
stabbed the night, but Harry  and Ginny walked on, b ack up the steps into the 
entrance hall. Faces swam on the edge s of Harry's vision, people were 
peering at him, whispering, wondering , and Gryffindor rubies glistened on 
the floor like drops of blood as they  made their way toward the marble 
staircase. 
 
"We're going to the hospital wing," said Ginny. 
 
"I'm not hurt," said Harry. ! 
 "It's McGonagalls orders," said Gi nny. "Everyone's up there, Ron and 
Hermione and Lupi n and everyone -" 
 
Fear stirred in Harry's chest again: He had forgotten the inert figures he 
had left behind. 
 
"Ginny, who else is dead?" 
 
"Don't worry, none of us." 
 
"But the Dark Mark - Malfoy said he stepped over a body -" 
 
"He stepped over Bill, but its all right, he's alive." 
 
There was something in her voice,  however, that Harry knew boded ill. 
 
"Are you sure?" 
 
"Of course I'm sure . . . he's a - a bit of a mess, that's all. Greyback 
attacked him. Madam Pomfrey says he won't - won't look the same anymore. 
. . ." 
 
Ginny's voice trembled a little. 
 
"We don't really know what the afte reffects will be - I mean, Greyback 
being a werewolf, but not transformed at the time." 
 "But the others . . . There were other bodies on the ground. . . ." 
 
"Neville and Professor Flitwick are both hurt, but Madam Pomfrey says 
they'll be all right. And a Death Eater' s dead, he got hit by a Killing Curse 
that huge blond one was firing off everyw here - Harry, if we hadn't had your 
Felix potion, I think we'd all have been killed, but everything seemed to just 
miss us -" 
 
They had reached the hospital wing. Pushing open the doors, Harry saw 
Neville lying, apparently asleep, in  a bed near the door. Ron, Hermione, 
Luna, Tonks, and Lupin were gathered around anothe r bed near the far end 
of the ward. At the sound of the doors op ening, they all looked up. Hermione 
ran to Harry and hugged hi m; Lupin moved forward too, looking anxious. 
 
"Are you all right, Harry?" 
 
"I'm fine.... How's Bill?" 
 
Nobody answered. Harry looked over He rmione's shoulder and saw an 
unrecognizable face lying on Bill's pillow, so badly slashed and ripped that 
he looked grotesque. Madam Pomfrey wa s dabbing at his wounds with some 
harsh-smelling green ointment. Harry  remembered how Snape had mended 
Malfoy's Sectumsempra wounds so easily with his wand. 
 
"Can't you fix them with a charm or  something?" he asked the matron. 
 "No charm will work on these," sa id Madam Pomfrey. "I've tried 
everything I know, but there is no cure for werewolf bites." 
 
"But he wasn't bitten at the full moon," said Ron, who was gazing down 
into his brother's face as though he could somehow force him to mend just 
by staring. "Greyback hadn't transformed, so surely Bill won't be a - a real - 
?" : 
 
He looked uncertainly at Lupin. 
 
"No, I don't think that Bill will be a tr ue werewolf," said Lupin, "but that 
does not mean that there won't be so me contamination. Those are cursed 
wounds. They are unlikely ever to heal fully, and - and Bill might have some 
wolfish characteristics from now on." 
 
"Dumbledore might know something that'd work, though," Ron said. 
"Where is he? Bill fought thos e maniacs on Dumbledore's orders, 
Dumbledore owes him, he can't leave him in this state -" 
 
"Ron - Dumbledores dead," said Ginny. 
 
"No!" Lupin looked wildly from Ginny to Harry, as though hoping the 
latter might contradict her, but when Harry did nor, Lupin collapsed into a 
chair beside Bill's bed, his hands ove r his face. Harry had never seen Lupin 
lose control before; he felt as th ough he was intruding upon something 
private, indecent. He turned away a nd caught Ron's eye instead, exchanging 
in silence a look that confirmed what Ginny had said.  
"How did he die?" whispere d Tonks. "How did it happen?" 
 
"Snape killed him," said Harry. "I was there, I saw it. We arrived back on 
the Astronomy Tower because that's wh ere the Mark was. . . . Dumbledore 
was ill, he was weak, but I think he re alized it was a trap when we heard 
footsteps running up the stairs. He immo bilized me, I couldn't do anything, I 
was under the Invisibility Cloak - and then Malfoy came through the door 
and disarmed him -" 
 
Hermione clapped her ha nds to her mouth and Ron groaned. Luna's 
mouth trembled. 
 
"- more Death Eaters arrived - and then Snape - and Snape did it. The 
Avada Kedavra." Harry couldn't go on. 
 
Madam Pomfrey burst into tears. Nobody paid her any attention except 
Ginny, who whispered, "Shh! Listen!" 
 
Gulping, Madam Pomfrey pressed her fingers to her mouth, her eyes 
wide. Somewhere out in the darkness, a phoenix was singing in a way Harry 
had never heard before: a stricken lame nt of terrible beauty. And Harry felt, 
as he had felt about phoeni x song before, that the mu sic was inside him, not 
without: It was his own grief turned ma gically to song that echoed across the 
grounds and through the castle windows. 
 How long they all stood there, liste ning, he did not know, nor why it 
seemed to ease their pain a little to liste n to the sound of their mourning, but 
it felt like a long time later that the ho spital door opened again and Professor 
McGonagall entered the ward. Like all the rest, she bore marks of the recent 
battle: There were grazes on her f ace and her robes were ripped. 
 
"Molly and Arthur are on their way," she said, and the spell of the music 
was broken: Everyone roused themselv es as though coming out of trances, 
turning again to look at B ill, or else to rub their ow n eyest shake their heads. 
"Harry, what happened? According to Hagrid you were with Professor 
Dumbledore when he - when it happened. He says Professor Snape was 
involved in some -" "Snape killed Dumbledore," said Harry. 
 
She stared at him for a moment, then swayed alarmingly; Madam 
Pomfrey, who seemed to ha ve pulled herself together , ran forward, conjuring 
a chair from thin air, which she pushed under McGonagall. 
 
"Snape," repeated McGonagall faintly , falling into the chair. "We all 
wondered . . . but he truste d . . . always . . . Snape. .. I can't believe it. ..." 
 
"Snape was a highly accomplished O cclumens," said Lupin, his voice 
uncharacteristically harsh. "We always knew that." 
 
"But Dumbledore swore he was on our side!" whispered Tonks. "I always 
thought Dumbledore must know something about Snape that we didn't. ..." . 
 "He always hinted that he had an ironclad reason for trusting Snape," 
muttered Professor McGonaga ll, now dabbing at the corners of her leaking 
eyes with a tartan-edged handkerchief. "I mean . . . with Snapes history ... of 
course people were bound to wonder. . . but Dumble dore told me explicitly 
that Snape's repentance was absolute ly genuine-----Wouldn't hear a word 
against him!" 
 
"I'd love to know what Snape told  him to convince him," said Tonks. 
 
"I know," said Harry, and they all tu rned to look at him. "Snape passed 
Voldemort the information that made Voldemort hunt down my mum and dad. Then Snape told Dumbledore he ha dn't realized what he was doing, he 
was really sorry he'd done it, sorry that they were dead." 
 
They all stared at him. 
 
"And Dumbledore believed that?" said  Lupin incredulously. "Dumbledore 
believed Snape was sorry James was dead? Snape hated James. . . ." 
 
"And he didn't think my mother was worth a damn either," said Harry, 
"because she was Muggle-born... 'Mudblood,' he called her. ..." 
 
Nobody asked how Harry knew this. All of  them seemed to be lost in 
horrified shock, trying to digest the monstrous truth of what had happened. 
 
"This is all my fault," said Profe ssor McGonagall suddenly. She looked 
disoriented, twisting her wet handkerchief in her ha nds. "My fault. I sent Filius to fetch Snape tonight, I actually sent for him to come and help us! If I 
hadn't alerted Snape to what was going  on, he might never have joined 
forces with the Death Eaters. I don't th ink he knew they were there before 
Filius told him, I don't think he knew they were coming." 
 
"It isn't your fault, Minerva," said  Lupin firmly. "We all wanted more 
help, we were glad to think Snape was on his way...." 
 
"So when he arrived at the fight, he joined in on the Death Eaters' side?" 
asked Harry, who wanted every deta il of Snape's duplicity and infamy, 
feverishly collecting more reasons to hate him, to swear vengeance. 
 
"I don't know exactly how it happened," said Professor McGonagall 
distractedly. "It's all so confusing. . . . Dumbledore had told us that he would 
be leaving the school for a few hours and that we were to patrol the corridors 
just in case . . . Remus, Bill, and Nym phadora were to join us ... and so we 
patrolled. All seemed quiet. Every secret passageway out of the school was 
covered. We knew nobody c ould fly in. There were powerful enchantments 
on every entrance into the castle. I still don't know how the Death Eaters can 
possibly have entered. . . ." 
 
"I do," said Harry, and he explained, briefly, about the pair of Vanishing 
Cabinets and the magical pathway they formed. "So they got in through the 
Room of Requirement." 
 
Almost against his will he glanced from Ron to Hermione, both of whom 
looked devastated.  
"I messed up, Harry," said Ron bl eakly. "We did like you told us: We 
checked the Marauder's Map and we couldn't see Malfoy on it, so we 
thought he must be in the Room of Requirement, so me, Ginny, and Neville 
went to keep watch on it... but Malfoy got past us." 
 
"He came out of the room about an ho ur after we started keeping watch," 
said Ginny. "He was on his own, clut ching that awful shriveled arm -" 
 
"His Hand of Glory," said Ron. "Gives light only to the holder, 
remember?" 
 
"Anyway," Ginny went on, "he must have been checking whether the 
coast was clear to let the Death Eaters out, because the moment he saw us he 
threw something into the air a nd it all went pitch-black -" 
 
"- Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder ," said Ron bitte rly. "Fred and 
George's. I'm going to be having a word  with them about who they let buy 
their products." 
 
"We tried everything, Lumos, Incendio," said Ginny. "Nothing would 
penetrate the darkness; all we coul d do was grope our way out of the 
corridor again, and meanwhile we c ould hear people rushing past us. 
Obviously Malfoy could see because of that hand thing and was guiding 
them, but we didn't dare use any curs es or anything in case we hit each 
other, and by the time we'd reached a co rridor that was light, they'd gone." 
 "Luckily," said Lupin hoarsely, "R on, Ginny, and Neville ran into us 
almost immediately and told us what  had happened. We found the Death 
Eaters minutes later, heading in th e direction of the Astronomy Tower. 
Malfoy obviously hadn't expected more  people to be on the watch; he 
seemed to have exhausted his supply  of Darkness Powder, at any rate. A 
fight broke out, they scattered and we gave chase. One of them, Gibbon, 
broke away and headed up the tower stairs -" 
 
"To set off the Mark?" asked Harry. 
 
"He must have done, yes, th ey must have arranged that  before they left the 
Room of Requirement," said Lupin. "B ut I don't think Gibbon liked the idea 
of waiting up there alone for Dumbledor e, because he came running back 
downstairs to rejoin the fight and was hit by a Killing Curse that just missed 
me." 
 
"So if Ron was watching the Room  of Requirement with Ginny and 
Neville," said Harry, turning to Hermione, "were you - ?" 
 
"Outside Snape's office, yes," whis pered Hermione, her eyes sparkling 
with tears, "with Luna. We hung around for ages outside it and nothing happened. . . . We didn't know what was going on upstairs,  Ron had taken 
the map-----It was nearly midnight wh en Professor Flitwick came sprinting 
down into the dungeons. He was shouting about Death Eaters in the castle, I 
don't think he really registered that Luna and I were there at all, he just burst his way into Snape's office and we heard him saying that Snape had to go 
back with him and help and then we heard a loud thump and Snape came hurtling out of his room and he saw us and - and -" "What?" Harry urged 
her. 
 
"I was so stupid, Harry!" said Herm ione in a high-pitched whisper. "He 
said Professor Flitwick had collapsed a nd that we should go and take care of 
him while he - while he went to help fight the Death Eaters -" She covered 
her face in shame and continued to talk  into her fingers, so that her voice 
was muffled. "We went into his office to see if we could help Professor 
Flitwick and found him unconscious on th e floor. . . and oh, it's so obvious 
now, Snape must have Stupefied Flitwic k, but we didn't realize, Harry, we 
didn't realize, we just let Snape go!" 
 
"It's not your fault," said Lupin firmly. "Hermione, had you not obeyed 
Snape and got out of the way, he pr obably would have k illed you and Luna." 
 
"So then he came upstairs," said Harry, who was watching Snape running 
up the marble staircase in his mind's eye, his black robes billowing behind 
him as ever, pulling his wand from under his cloak as he ascended, "and he 
found the place where you were all fighting. ..." 
 
"We were in trouble, we were losing," said Tonks  in a low voice. "Gibbon 
was down, but the rest of the Death Ea ters seemed ready to fight to the 
death. Neville had been hurt, Bill had been savaged by Greyback... It was all dark . . . curses flying everywhere . . . The Malfoy boy had vanished, he 
must have slipped past, up the stairs . . . then more of them ran after him, but 
one of them blocked the stair behind them with some kind of curse. . . . 
Neville ran at it and got thrown up into the air -"  
"None of us could break through," sa id Ron, "and that massive Death 
Eater was still firing off ji nxes all over the place, th ey were bouncing off the 
walls and barely missing us. . . ." 
 
"And then Snape was there," said Tonks, "and then he wasn't -" 
 
"I saw him running toward us, but that  huge Death Eaters jinx just missed 
me right afterward and I ducked and lo st track of things," said Ginny. 
 
"I saw him run straight through the cursed barrier as though it wasn't 
there," said Lupin. "I tried to follo w him, but was thrown back just like 
Neville. . . ." 
 
"He must have known a spell we di dn't," whispered McGonagall. "After 
all - he was the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. ... I just assumed that 
he was in a hurry to chase after the Death Eaters who'd escaped up to the 
tower. ..." 
 
"He was," said Harry savagely, "but to  help them, not to stop them . . . 
and I'll bet you had to have a Dark Mark to get through that barrier - so what 
happened when he came back down?" 
 
"Well, the big Death Eater had just fired off a hex that caused half the 
ceiling to fall in, and also broke the cu rse blocking the stairs," said Lupin. 
"We all ran forward - those of us who were still standing anyway - and then Snape and the boy emerged out of the dust - obviously, none of us attacked 
them -" 
 
"We just let them pass," said Tonks in a hollow voice. "We thought they 
were being chased by the Death Eaters  - and next thing, the other Death 
Eaters and Greyback were  back and we were fighting again - I thought I 
heard Snape shout something, but I don't know what -" 
 
"He shouted, 'It's over,'" said Harry. "He'd done what he'd meant to do." 
 
They all fell silent. Fawkes's lame nt was still echoing over the dark 
grounds outside. As the music reve rberated upon the air, unbidden, 
unwelcome thoughts slunk into Harry 's mind. . . . Had they taken 
Dumbledore's body from the foot of the to wer yet? What would happen to it 
next? Where would it rest? He clenched  his fists tighdy in his pockets. He 
could feel the small cold lump of the fake Horcrux against the knuckles of his right hand. 
 
The doors of the hospital wing burst open, making them all jump: Mr. and 
Mrs. Weasley were striding up the ward, Fleur just behind them, her beautiful face terrified. 
 
"Molly - Arthur -" said Professor McGonagall, jumping up and hurrying 
to greet them. "I am so sorry -" 
 
"Bill," whispered Mrs. Weasley, da rting past Professor McGonagall as 
she caught sight of Bill's mangled face. "Oh, Bill!"  
Lupin and Tonks had got up  hastily and retreated so that Mr. and Mrs. 
Weasley could get nearer to the bed. Mrs. Weasley bent over her son and 
pressed her lips to his bloody forehead. 
 
"You said Greyback attacked him?" Mr. Weasley asked Professor 
McGonagall distractedly. "But he hadn' t transformed? So what does that 
mean? What will happen to Bill?" 
 
"We don't yet know," said Professor Mc Gonagall, looking helplessly at 
Lupin. 
 
"There will probably be some contamin ation, Arthur," .said Lupin. "It is 
an odd case, possibly unique. . . . We don't know what his behavior might be 
like when he awakens. . . ." 
 
Mrs. Weasley took the nasty-smelling ointment from Madam Pomfrey 
and began dabbing at Bill's wounds. 
 
"And Dumbledore ..." said Mr. Weasley. "Minerva, is it true ... Is he 
really. . . ?" 
 
As Professor McGonagall nodded, Harry felt Ginny m ove beside him and 
looked at her. Her slightly narrowed eyes were fixed upon Fleur, who was 
gazing down at Bill with a fro zen expression on her face. 
 "Dumbledore gone," whispered Mr. Weas ley, but Mrs. Weasley had eyes 
only for her eldest son; she began to  sob, tears falling onto Bill's mutilated 
face. 
 
"Of course, it doesn't matter how he looks . . . . It's not r-really important. . 
. but he was a very handsome little b-boy . . . always very handsome . . . and 
he was g-going to be married!" 
 
"And what do you mean by zat?" said  Fleur suddenly and loudly. "What 
do you mean, ' he was going to be married?'" 
 
Mrs. Weasley raised her tear-stained face, looking startled. "Well -only 
that-" 
 
"You theenk Bill will not wish to ma rry me anymore?" demanded Fleur. 
"You theenk, because of these b ites, he will not love me?" 
 
"No, that's not what I -" 
 
"Because 'e will!" said Fleur, drawi ng herself up to her full height and 
throwing back her long mane of silv er hair. "It would take more zan a 
werewolf to stop Bill loving me!" 
 
"Well, yes, I'm sure," said Mrs. We asley, "but I thought perhaps - given 
how - how he -" 
 "You thought I would not weesh to ma rry him? Or per'aps, you hoped?" 
said Fleur, her nostrils flaring. "What do I care how he looks? I am good-
looking enough for both of us, I theenk!  All these scars show is zat my 
husband is brave! And I shall do zat!"  she added fiercely, pushing Mrs. 
Weasley aside and snatching the ointment from her. 
 
Mrs. Weasley fell back against her husband and watched Fleur mopping 
up Bill's wounds with a most curious expression upon her face. Nobody said 
anything; Harry did not da re move. Like everybody else, he was waiting for 
the explosion. 
 
"Our Great-Auntie Muriel," said Mrs.  Weasley after a long pause, "has a 
very beautiful tiara - goblin-made - whic h I am sure I could persuade her to 
lend you for the wedding. She is very  fond of Bill, you know, and it would 
look lovely with your hair." 
 
"Thank you," said Fleur stiffly. "I am sure zat will be lovely." 
 
And then, Harry did not quite see how  it happened, both , women were 
crying and hugging each other. Completely bewildered, wondering whether 
the world had gone mad, he turned aroun d: Ron looked as stunned as he felt 
and Ginny and Hermione were  exchanging startled looks. 
 
"You see!" said a strained voice. Tonks  was glaring at Lupin. "She still 
wants to marry him, even though he 's been bitten! She doesn't care! 
 "It's different," said L upin, barely moving his lips and looking suddenly 
tense. "Bill will not be a full werewolf. The cases are completely -" 
 
"But I don't care either, I don't care! " said Tonks, seiz ing the front of 
Lupin's robes and shaking them. "I've told you a million times. . . ." 
 
And the meaning of Tonks's Patronus and her mouse-colored hair, and the 
reason she had come running to find Dumbledore when she had heard a 
rumor someone had been attacked by Greyback, all sudde nly became clear 
to Harry; it had not been Sinus that Tonks  had fallen in love with after all. 
 
"And I've told you a million times," said  Lupin, refusing to meet her eyes, 
staring at the floor, "that I am too old fo r you, too poor . . . too dangerous. . . 
." 
 
"I've said all along you're taking a ridi culous line on this, Remus," said 
Mrs. Weasley over Fleur's shoulde r as she patted her on the back. 
 
"I am not being ridiculous," said Lupin steadily. "Tonks deserves 
somebody young and whole." 
 
"But she wants you," said Mr. Weasley,  with a small smile. "And after all, 
Remus, young and whole men do not  necessarily remain so." 
 
He gestured sadly at his son, lying between them. 
 "This is... not the moment to discuss it," said Lupin, avoiding everybody's 
eyes as he looked around distract edly. "Dumbledore is dead. ..." 
 
"Dumbledore would have been happier  than anybody to think that there 
was a little more love in the world," sa id Professor McGonagall curtly, just 
as the hospital doors opened again and Hagrid walked in. 
 
The little of his face that was not ob scured by hair or beard was soaking 
and swollen; he was shaking with tears,  a vast, spotted handkerchief in his 
hand. 
 
"I've . . . I've done it, Professor," he choked. "M-move d him. Professor 
Sprout's got the kids back in bed. Pro fessor Flitwick's lyin down, but he says 
he'll be all righ' in a jiffy, an' Profe ssor Slughorn says the Ministry's bin 
informed." 
 
"Thank you, Hagrid," said Professor McGonagall, standing up at once and 
turning to look at the group around Bill' s bed. "I shall have to see the 
Ministry when they get here. Hagrid , please tell the Heads of Houses - 
Slughorn can represent Slytherin - that  I want to see them in my office 
forthwith. I would like you to join us too." 
 
As Hagrid nodded, turned, and shuffled  out of the room again, she looked 
down at Harry. "Before I meet them I would like a quick word with you, 
Harry. If you'll come with me. ..." 
 Harry stood up, murmured "See you in  a bit" to Ron, Hermione, and 
Ginny, and followed Professor Mc Gonagall back down the ward. The 
corridors outside were deserted and the only sound was the distant phoenix 
song. It was several minutes before Ha rry became aware that they were not 
heading for Professor McGonagall's office, but for Dumbledore's, and 
another few seconds before he realized  that of course, she had been deputy 
headmistress, . . . Apparently she was now headmistress ... so the room 
behind the gargoyle was now hers. 
 
In silence they ascended the moving spiral staircase and entered the 
circular office. He did not know what he had expected: that the room would 
be draped in black, perhaps, or even  that Dumbledore's body might be lying 
there. In fact, it looked almost ex actly as it had done when he and 
Dumbledore had left it mere hours pr eviously: the silver instruments 
whirring and puffing on their spindle legged tables, Gryffindor's sword in its glass case gleaming in the moonlight, th e Sorting Hat on a shelf behind the 
desk, the Fawkes's perch stood empty, he was still crying his lament to the 
grounds. And a new portrait had joined the ranks of the dead headmasters 
and headmistresses of Hogwarts: Dumb ledore was slumbering in a golden 
frame over the desk, his half-moon spectacle perche d upon his crooked nose, 
looking peaceful and untroubled. 
 
After glancing once at this portrait,  Professor McGonagall made an odd 
movement as though steeling herself, th en rounded the' desk to look at 
Harry, her face taut and lined. 
 "Harry," she said, "I would lik e to know what you and Professor 
Dumbledore were doing this evening when you left the school." 
 
"I can't tell you that, Professor," said Harry. He had expected the question 
and had his answer ready. It had b een here, in this very room, that 
Dumbledore had told him that he was to confide the contents of their lessons 
to nobody but Ron and Hermione. 
 
"Harry, it might be important,"  said Professor McGonagall. 
 
"It is," said Harry, "very, but he didn't want me to tell anyone." 
 
Professor McGonagall glared at him. "Potter" - Harry registered the 
renewed use of his surname - "in the light of Professor Dumbledore's death, 
I think you must see that the si tuation has changed somewhat -" 
 
"I don't think so," said Harry, shr ugging. "Professor Dumbledore never 
told me to stop following his orders if he died." But - 
 
"There's one thing you s hould know before the Mini stry gets here, though. 
Madam Rosmerta's under the Imperius Curse, she was helping Malfoy and 
the Death Eaters, that's how the necklace and the poisoned mead -" 
 
"Rosmerta?" said Professo r McGonagall incredulou sly, but before she 
could go on, there was a knock on th e door behind them and Professors 
Sprout, Flitwick, and Slughorn traipsed  into the room, followed by Hagrid, 
who was still weeping copiously, his huge frame trembling with grief.  
"Snape!" ejaculated Slughorn, who looked the most shaken, pale and 
sweating. "Snape! I taught hi m! I thought I knew him!" 
 
But before any of them could res pond to this, a sharp voice spoke from 
high on the wall: A sallow-fa ced wizard with a short black fringe had just 
walked back into his empty canvas. "Minerva, the Minister will be here 
within seconds, he has just Di sapparated from the Ministry." 
 
"Thank you, Everard," said Professor Mc Gonagall, and she turned quickly 
to her teachers. 
 
"I want to talk about what happens to  Hogwarts before he gets here," she 
said quickly. "Personally, I am not c onvinced that the school should reopen 
next year. The death of th e headmaster at the hands of one of our colleagues 
is a terrible stain upon Hogwarts's history. It is horrible." 
 
"I am sure Dumbledore would have wanted the school to remain open," 
said Professor Sprout. "I feel that if a single pupil wants to come, then the 
school ought to remain open for that pupil." 
 
"But will we have a single pupil afte r this?" said Slughorn, now dabbing 
his sweating brow with a silken handker chief. "Parents will want to keep 
their children at home and I can't say I blame them. Personally, I don't think 
we're in more danger at Hogwarts than  we are anywhere else, but you can't 
expect mothers to think like that. Th ey'll want to keep their families 
together, it's only natural."  
"I agree," said Professor McGonagall. "And in any case, it is not true to 
say that Dumbledore never envisaged a situation in which Hogwarts might 
close. When the Chamber of Secrets reopened he considered the closure of 
the school - and I must say that Pro fessor Dumbledore's murder is more 
disturbing to me than the idea of Slytherin's monster living undetected in the bowels of the castle. . . ." 
 
"We must consult the governors," said  Professor Flitwick in his squeaky 
little voice; he had a large bruise on  his forehead but seemed otherwise 
unscathed by his collapse in Snape's offi ce. "We must follow the established 
procedures. A decision should not be made hastily." 
 
"Hagrid, you haven't said  anything," said Professor McGonagall. "What 
are your views, ought Hogwarts to remain open?" 
 
Hagrid, who had been weeping silently into his large, spotted 
handkerchief throughout this  conversation, now rais ed puffy red eyes and 
croaked, "I dunno, Professor . . . that 's fer the Heads of House an the 
headmistress ter decide ..." 
 
"Professor Dumbledore always valu ed your views," said Professor 
McGonagall kindly, "and so do I." 
 
"Well, I'm stayin," said Hagrid, fat tears still leaking out of the corners of 
his eyes and trickling down into his tangled beard. "It's me home, it's bin me 
home since I was thirteen. An' if there's kids who wan' me te r teach 'em, I'll do it. But... I dunno ... Hogwarts without Dumbledore .. ." He gulped and 
disappeared behind his handkerchief once more, and there was silence. 
 
"Very well," said Professor McGonaga ll, glancing out of the window at 
the grounds, checking to see whether the Minister was yet approaching, 
"then I must agree with Filius that th e right thing to do is to consult the 
governors, who will make the final decision. 
 
"Now, as to getting students home . . . there is an argument for doing it 
sooner rather than later. We could arra nge for the Hogwarts Express to come 
tomorrow if necessary -" 
 
"What about Dumbledore's funeral?" said Harry, speaking at last. 
 
"Well. . ." said Professor McGonagall,  losing a little of her briskness as 
her voice shook. "I - I know that it was Dumbledore's wish to be laid to rest 
here, at Hogwarts -" 
 
"Then that's what'll happen, is n't it?" said Harry fiercely. 
 
"If the Ministry thinks it appropria te," said Professor McGonagall. "No 
other headmaster or headmi stress has ever been -" 
 
"No other headmaster or headmistress ever gave more to this school," 
growled Hagrid. 
 "Hogwarts should be Dumbledore's fi nal resting place," said Professor 
Flitwick. 
 
"Absolutely," said Professor Sprout. 
 
"And in that case," said Harry, "you shouldn't send the students home 
until the jfuneral's over. They'll want to say -" 
 
The last word caught in his throat , but Professor Sprout completed the 
sentence for him. "Good-bye." 
 
"Well said," squeaked Professor Flitwic k. "Well said indeed! Our students 
should pay tribute, it is fitting. We can arrange transport home afterward." 
 
"Seconded," barked Professor Sprout. ] 
 
"I suppose ... yes .. ." said Slughorn in a rather agitated voice, while 
Hagrid let out a strangled sob of assent. 
 
"He's coming," said Professor McGonagall suddenly, gazing down into 
the grounds. "The Minister . . . a nd by the looks of it. he's brought a 
delegation . . ." 
 
"Can I leave, Professor?" said Harry at once. 
 
He had no desire at all to see, or be interrogated by, Rufus Scrimgeour 
tonight.  
"You may," said Professor Mc Gonagall. "And quickly." 
 
She strode toward the door and held it open for him. He sped down the 
spiral staircase and off along the deserted corridor; he-had left his 
Invisibility Cloak at the top of the As tronomy Tower, but it did not matter; 
there was nobody in the corridors to see him pass, not even Filch, Mrs. 
Norris, or Peeves. He did not meet an other soul until he turned into the 
passage leading to the Gryffindor common room. 
 
"Is it true?" whispered the Fat Lady as he approached her. "It is really 
true? Dumbledore - dead?" 
 
"Yes," said Harry. 
 
She let out a wail and, without waiting for the password, swung forward 
to admit him. 
 
As Harry had suspected it would be , the common room was jam-packed. 
The room fell silent as he climbed th rough the portrait hole. He saw Dean 
and Seamus sitting in a group nearby: This  meant that the dormitory must be 
empty, or nearly so. Without speaking to anybody, without making eye contact at all, Harry walked straight across the room and through the door to 
the boys' dormitories. 
 As he had hoped, Ron was waiting for him, still fully dressed, sitting on 
his bed. Harry sat down on his own f our-poster and for a moment, they 
simply stared at each other. 
 
"They're talking about clos ing the school," said Harry. 
 
"Lupin said they would," said Ron. 
 
There was a pause. 
 
"So?" said Ron in a very low voice, as though he thought the furniture 
might be listening in. "Did you find one? Did you get it? A - a Horcrux?" 
 
Harry shook his head. All that had taken place around that black lake 
seemed like an old nightmare now; had it really happe ned, and only hours 
ago? 
 
"You didn't get it?" said Ron, looking crestfallen. "It wasn't there?" 
 
"No," said Harry. "Someone had alread y taken it and left a fake in its 
place." 
 
"Already taken - ?" 
 
Wordlessly, Harry pulled the fake lo cket from his pocke t, opened it, and 
passed it to Ron. The full story could wa it. ... It did not matter tonight. . . nothing mattered except the end, the end of their pointless adventure, the end 
of Dumbledore's life. . . . 
 
"R.A.B.," whispered Ron,  "but who was that?" 
 
"Dunno," said Harry, lying back on his bed fully clothed and staring 
blankly upwards. He felt no curiosity at all about R.A.B.: He doubted that he 
would ever feel curious again. As he  lay there, he became aware suddenly 
that the grounds were silent. Fawkes  had stopped singing. And he knew, 
without knowing how he knew it, th at ilie phoenix had gone, had left 
Hogwarts for good, just as Dumbledor e had left the school, had left the 
world . . . had left Harry. 
CHAPTER 30
 
All lessons were suspended, all exam inations postponed. Some students 
were hurried away from Hogwarts by their parents over the next couple of 
days - the Patil twins were gone before  breakfast on the morning following 
Dumbledore's death and Zacharias Smith  was escorted from the castle by his 
haughty-looking father. Seamus Finniga n, on the other ha nd, refused point-
blank to accompany his mother home; they had a shouting match in the 
Entrance Hall which was resolved when she agreed that he could remain 
behind for the funeral. She had difficu lty in finding a bed in Hogsmeade, 
Seamus told Harry and Ron, for wizards  and witches were pouring into the 
village, preparing to pay their last respects to Durnbledore. 
 
Some excitement was caused among th e younger students,  who had never 
seen it before, when a powder-blue carri age the size of a house, pulled by a 
dozen giant winged palo-minos, came so aring out of the sky in the late 
afternoon before the fune ral and landed on the edge of the Forest. Harry 
watched from a window as a gigantic and handsome olive-skinned, black-haired woman descended the carriage steps and threw herself into the 
waiting Hagrid's arms. Meanwhile a delegation of Ministry officials, 
including the Minister for Magic hi mself, was being accommodated within 
the castle. Harry was diligently avoiding contact with any of them; he 
 
was sure that, sooner or later, he would be asked again to account for 
Dumbledore's last excursion from Hogwarts. 
 Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny were sp ending all of their time together. 
The beautiful weather seemed to mock  them; Harry could imagine how it 
would have been if Durnbledore had not  died, and they had had this time 
together at the very end of the year, Ginny's examinations finished, the 
pressure of homework lifted ... and hour by hour, he put off saying the thing 
that he knew he must say, doing what he knew it was right to do, because it 
was too hard to forgo his best source of comfort. 
 
They visited the hospital wing twice a day: Neville had been discharged, 
but Bill remained under Madam Pomfrey' s care. His scars were as bad as 
ever; in truth, he now bore a dis tinct resemblance to Mad-Eye Moody, 
though thankfully with both eyes and le gs, but in personality he seemed jusi 
the same as ever. All that appeared to  have changed was that he now had a 
great liking for very rare steaks. 
 
'... so eet ees lucky 'e is marrying  me,' said Fleur happily, plumping up 
Bill's pillows, 'because ze British over cook their meat, I 'ave always said 
this.' 
 
'I suppose I'm just going to have to accept that he really is going to marry 
her,' sighed Ginny later that evening, as she, Harry, Ron and Hermione sat 
beside the open window of the Gryffi ndor common room, looking out over 
the twilit grounds, 
 
'She's not that bad,' said Harry. 'Ugl y, though,' he added hastily, as Ginny 
raised her eyebrows, and she let out a reluctant giggle. 
 'Well, I suppose if Mum can stand it, 1 can.' 
 
'Anyone else we know died?' Ron aske d Hermione, who wa s perusing the 
Evening Prophet. 
 
Hermione winced at the forced toughness in his voice. 
 
'No,' she said reprovingly, folding up ihe newspaper. 'They're still looking 
for Snape, but no sign ...' 
 
'Of course there isn't,' said Harry , who became angry every lime this 
subject cropped up. They won't find Sn ape till they find Voldemort, and 
seeing as they've never managed to do that in all this time ...' 
 
'I'm going to go to bed,' yawned Ginny.  'I haven't been sleeping thai well 
since ... well ... I could do with some sleep.' 
 
She kissed Harry (Ron looked away pointedly), waved al the other two 
and departed for the girls' dormitori es. The moment the door had closed 
behind her, Hermione leaned forw ards towards Harry with a most 
Hermione-ish look on her face. 
 
'Harry, I found something ou( this morning, in the library ..,' 
 
'R.A.B.?' said Harry, silling up straight. 
 He did not feel the way he had so often felt before, excited, curious, 
burning to get to the bottom of a myster y; he simply knew that the task of 
discovering the truth about the real Ho rcrux had to be co mpleted before he 
could move a little further along the da rk and winding path stretching ahead 
of him, the path that he and Dumb ledore had set out upon together, and 
which he now knew he would have to journey alone. There might still be as 
many as four Horcruxes out there some where and each would need to be 
found and elim-inated befo re there was even a possi bility that Voldemort 
could be killed. He kept reciting their names to himself, as though by listing 
them he could bring them w ithin reach: 'the locket . ., the cup ... the snake ... 
something of Gryffindor's or Ravenclaw's  ... the locket ... the cup ... the 
snake ... something of Gryffindor's or Ravenclaw's ...' 
 
This mantra seemed to pulse through Harry's mind as he 
 
fell asleep at night, and his dreams were thick with cups, lockets and 
mysterious objects that he could not quite reach, though Dumbledore 
helpfully offered Harry a ro pe ladder that turned to snakes the moment he 
began to climb ... 
 
He had shown Hermione the note inside the locket the morning after 
Dumbledore's death, and although she had not immediately recognised the 
initials as belonging to some obscu re wizard about whom she had been 
reading, she had since been rushing off to the library a little more often than 
was strictly necessary for some body who had no homework to do. 
 'No,' she said sadly, 'I've been tryi ng, Harry, but I haven't found anything 
... there are a couple of reasonably we ll-known wizards with those initials - 
Rosalind Antigone Bungs ... Rupert "A xebanger" Brookstanton ... but they 
don't seem to fit at all. Judging by that note, the person who stole the 
Horcrux knew Voldemort, and I can't fi nd a shred of evidence that Bungs or 
Axebanger ever had anything to do w ith him ... no, actually, it's about ... 
well, Snape.' 
 
She looked nervous even saying the name again. 
 
'What about him?' asked Harry heavily, slumping back in his chair. 
 
'Well, it's just that I was sort of right about the Half-Blood Prince 
business,' she said tentatively. 
 
'D'you have to rub it in, Hermione? How tTyou think 1 feel about that 
now?' 
 
'No - no - Harry, I didn't mean that!' she said hastily, look-ing around to 
check that they were not being overheard. 'It's just that 1 was right about 
Eileen Prince once owning the book. You see ... she was Snape's mother!' 
 
T thought she wasn't much of a looker, ' said Ron. Hermione ignored him. 
 
'1 was going through ihe rest of the old Prophets and there 
 was a tiny announcement about Eil een Prince marrying a man called 
Tobias Snape, and then later an a nnouncement saying that she'd given birth 
to a -' 
 
'- murderer,' spat Harry. 
 
'Well ... yes,' said Hermione. 'So ... 1 was sort of right. Snape must have 
been proud of being "half a Prince" , you see? Tobias Snape was a Muggie 
from what it said in the Prophet' 
 
'Yeah, that fits,' said Harry. 'He'd play up the pure-blood side so he could 
get in with Lucius Malfoy and the rest of them ... he's just like Voldemort. 
Pure-blood mother, Muggie father ... ashamed of his parentage, trying to 
make himself feared usi ng the Dark Arts, gave himself an impressive new 
name - Lard Voldemort - the Half-Blood Prince - how could Dumbledore have missed -?' 
 
He broke off, looking out of the window. He could not stop himself 
dwelling upon Dumbledore's inexcusable trust in Snape ... but as Hermione 
had just inadvertently reminded him, he , Harry, had been taken in just the 
same ... in spite of the increasing nas tiness of those scribbled spells, he had 
refused to believe ill of the boy who had been so cl ever, who had helped him 
so much ... 
 
Helped him ... it wa s an almost unendurable thought, now ... 
 'I still don't get why he didn't turn you  in for using that book,' said Ron. 
'He must've known where you were getting it ali from.' 
 
'He knew,' said Harry bitterly. 'He knew when I used Secfumsempra. He 
didn't really need Legilimency ... he might even have known before then, 
with Slughom talking about how brilliant  I was at Potions ... shouldn't have 
left his old book in the bottom of that cupboard, should he?' 
 
'But why didn't he turn you in?' 
 
'I don't ihink he wanted to associ ate himself with that book,' said 
Hermione. 'I don't think Dumbledore woul d have liked it very much if he'd 
known. And even if Snape pre-tended it hadn't been his, Slughom would 
have recognised his writing at once. Anyway, the book was left in Snape's 
old classroom, and I'll bet Dumble dore knew his mother was called 
"Prince".' 
 
T should've shown the book to Dumbledore ,' said Harry. 'All that lime he 
was showing me how Voldemort was evil even when he was at school, and 1 
had proof Snape was, too -' 
 
'"Evil" is a strong word,' said Hermione quietly. 
 
'You were the one who kept te lling me the book was dangerous!' 
 'I'm trying to say, Harry, that you're  pulling too much blame on yourself. 1 
thought the Prince seemed to have a nasty sense of humour, but I would 
never have guessed he wa s a potential killer ...' 
 
'None of us could've  guessed Snape would ... you know,' said Ron. 
 
Silence fell between them, each of them lost in their own thoughts, but 
Harry was sure that they, like him, were think-ing about the following 
morning, when Dumbledore's body would be laid to rest . Harry had never 
attended a funeral before; there had been no body to bury when Sirius had 
died. He did not know what to expect and was a little worried about what he 
might see, about how he would feel . He won-dered whether Dumbledore's 
death would be more real to him on ce the funeral was over. Though he had 
moments when the horrible fact of it threatened to overwhelm him, there were blank stretches of numbness where, despite the fact that nobody was 
talking about anything else  in the whole castle, he still found it difficult 10 
believe that Dumbledore 
 
had really gone. Admittedly he had not , as he had with Sirius, looked 
desperately for some kind of loophol e, some way that Dumbledore would 
come back ... he felt in his pocket for the cold chain of the fake Horcrux, 
which he now carried with him everyw here, not as a talisman, but as a 
reminder of what it had cost and what remained still to do. 
 
Harry rose early to pack the next day; the Hogwarts Express would be 
leaving an hour after the funeral. Do wn-stairs he found the mood in the 
Great Hall subdued. Every-body was we aring their dress robes and no one seemed very hungry. Professor McGonaga ll had left the thronelike chair in 
the middle of the staff table empty. Ha grid's chair was des-erted too: Harry 
thought thai perhaps he had not been  able to face breakfast; but Snape's 
place had been unceremoniously filled by Rufus Scrimgeour. Harry avoided 
his yellowish eyes as they scanned the Hall; Harry had the uncomfortable 
feeling that Scrimgeour was look ing for him. Among Scrimgeour's 
entourage Harry spotted the red hair and horn-rimmed glasses of Percy 
Weasley. Ron gave no sign that he was aware of Percy, apart from stabbing 
pieces of kipper with unwonted venom. 
 
Over at the Slytherin table Crabbe and Goyle were mutter- 
ing together. Hulking boys though they were, they looked 
oddly lonely without the tall, pale figure of Malfoy between 
them, bossing them around. Harry had not spared Malfoy 
much thought. His animosity was all for Snape, but he had 
not forgotten the fear in Malfoy's voice on that Tower top, nor 
the fact that he had lowered his wand before the other Death 
Eaters arrived. Harry did not believe that Malfoy would have 
killed Dumbledore. He despised Malfoy still for his infatu- 
ation with the Dark Arts, but now the tiniest drop of pity 
mingled with his dislike. Wher e, Harry wondered, was Malfoy 
now, and what was Voldemort making him do under threat of 
killing him and his parents? ? •••>. 
 
Harry's thoughts were interrupted by  a nudge in the ribs from Ginny. 
Professor McGonagall had rise n to her feet and the mournful hum in the Hall 
died away at once.  
'It is nearly time,' she said. 'Pleas e follow your Heads of House out into 
the grounds. Gryffindors, after me.' 
 
They filed out from behind their benche s in near silence. Harry glimpsed 
Slughorn at the head of the Slytheri n column, wearing magnificent long 
emerald-green robes embroidered with silver. He had never seen Professor 
Sprout, Head of the Hufflepuffs, look ing so clean; there was not a single 
patch on her hat, and when they r eached the Entrance Hall, they found 
Madam Pince standing beside Filch, she in a thick black veil that fell to her 
knees, he in an ancient black suit and tie reek-ing of mothbails. 
 
They were heading, as Harry saw wh en he stepped out on to the stone 
steps from the front doors, towards the lake. The warmth of the sun caressed 
his face as they followed Professor Mc Gonagall in silence to the place where 
hundreds of chairs had been set out in  rows. An aisle ran down the centre of 
them: there was a marble table standing at the front, all chairs facing it. It 
was the most beautiful summer's day. 
 
An extraordinary assortment of people had already settled into half of the 
chairs: shabby and smart, old and young . Most Harry did not recognise, but 
there were a few that he did, including members of the Order of the Phoenix: 
Kingsley Shacklebolt, Mad-Eye Moody,  Tonks, her hair miraculously 
returned to vividest pink, Remus L upin, with whom she seemed to be 
holding hands, Mr and Mrs Weasley, Bill sup-ported by Fleur and followed 
by Fred and George, who were wearing jackets of black dragonskin. Then 
there was Madame Maxime, who took up two-and-a-half chairs on her own, Tom, the landlord of the Leaky Cauld ron, Arabella Figg, Harry's Squib 
neighbour, the hairy bass player from the 
 
wizardmg group the Weird bisters, hr nie Frang, dnver ol the Knight Bus, 
Madam Malkin, of the robe shop in Diagon Alley, and some people whom 
Harry merely knew by sight, such as the barman of the Hog's Head and the 
witch who pushed the trolley on the Ho gwarts Express. The castle ghosts 
were there too, barely visible in the bright sunlight, discernible only when 
they moved, shimmering insubsta ntially in the gleaming air. 
 
Harry, Ron, Hermione a nd Ginny filed into seats at the end of a row 
beside the lake. People were whisperi ng to each other; it sounded like a 
breeze in the grass, but the birdsong was louder by far. Th e crowd continued 
to swell; with a great rush of affec tion for both of them, Harry saw Neville 
being helped into a seat by Luna. They  alone of all the DA had responded to 
Hermione's summons the night that Dumbledore had died, and Harry knew 
why: they were the ones who had mi ssed the DA most ... probably the ones 
who had checked their coins regularly  in the hope that there would be 
another meeting ... 
 
Cornelius Fudge walked past them to wards the front rows, his expression 
miserable, twirling his green bowler hat as usual; Harry next recognised Rita 
Skeeter, who, he was infuri-ated to s ee, had a notebook clutched in her red-
takmed hand; and then, with a worse jolt of fury, Dolores Umbridge, an 
unconvincing expression of grief upon her toadlike face, a black velvet bow 
set atop her iron-coloured curls. At the sight of the centaur Firenze, who was standing like a sentinel near the wate r's edge, she gave a start and scurried 
hastily into a seat  a good distance away. 
 
The staff were seated at last. Harry  could see Scrimgeour looking grave 
and dignified in the front row with  Professor McGonagall. He wondered 
whether Scrimgeour or any of these impor tant people were really sorry that 
Dumbledore wasand he forgot his dislike of the Ministry in looking around 
for the source of it. He was not the only one: many heads were turning, 
searching, a little alarmed. 
 
'In there,' whispered Ginny in Harry's ear. 
 
And he saw them in the clear green sunlit water, inches below the surface, 
reminding him horribly of the Inferi; a chorus of merpeople singing in a 
strange language he did not understand, their pallid faces rippling, their 
purplish hair flowing all around them. The music made the hair on Harry's 
neck stand up and yet it was not unpleasant.  It spoke very clearly of loss and 
of despair. As he looked down into the wild faces of the singers he had the feeling that they, at least, were so rry for Dumbledore's passing. Then Ginny 
nudged him again and he looked round. 
 
Hagrid was walking slowly up the aisl e between the chairs. He was crying 
quite silently, his face gleaming with tears, and in his arms, wrapped in 
purple velvet spangled with golden stars, was what Harry knew to be 
Dumbledore's body. A sharp pain rose in Harry's throat at this sight: for a 
moment, the strange music and the kn owledge that Dumbledore's body was 
so close seemed to take all warmth from the day. Ron looked white and shocked. Tears were falli ng thick and fast into bo th Ginny and Hermione's 
laps. 
 
 
They could not see clearly what wa s happening at the front. Hagrid 
seemed to have placed the body carefu lly upon the table. Now he retreated 
down the aisle, blowing his nose with loud trumpeting noises that drew 
scandalised looks from some, including , Harry saw, Dolores Umbridge ... 
but Harry knew that Dumbledore would not  have cared. He tried to make a 
friendly gesture to Hagrid as he passed,  but Hagrid's eyes were so swollen it 
was a wonder he could see where he wa s going. Harry glanced at the back 
row to which Hagrid 
 
was heading and realised what was gui ding him, for there, dressed in a 
jacket and trousers each the size of a small mar-quee, was the giant Grawp, 
his great ugly boulder-like head bowed , docile, almost human. Hagrid sat 
down next to his half-brother and Graw p palled Hagrid hard on the head, so 
that his chair legs sank into the ground. Harry had a wonder-ful momentary 
urge to laugh. But then the music sto pped and he turned to face the front 
again. 
 
A little tufty-haired man in plain black  robes had got to his feet and stood 
now in front of Dumbledore's body. Harry could not hear what he was 
saying. Odd words floated back to them over the hundreds of beads. 
'Nobility of spirit' ... 'intel-lectual contribu tion' ... 'greatness of heart' ... it did 
not mean very much. It had little to  do with Dumbledore as Harry had 
known him. He suddenly remembered Du mbledore's idea of a few words: 'nitwit', 'oddment', 'blubber' and 'tweak 1,  and again, had to suppress a grin ... 
what was the matter with him? 
 
There was a soft splashing noise to hi s left and he saw that the merpeople 
had broken the surface to listen, too.  He remembered Dumbledore crouching 
at the water's edge two years ago, ve ry close to where Harry now sat, and 
conversing in Mermish with the Merc hieftainess. Harry wondered where 
Dumbledore had learned Mermish. Ther e was so much he had never asked 
him, so much he should have said ... 
 
And then, without warning, it swept over him, the dreadful truth, more 
completely and undeniabl y than it had until now. Dumbledore was dead, 
gone ... he clutched the cold locket in his hand so tightly that it hurt, but he 
could not prevent hot tears spilling from his eyes: he looked away from 
Ginny and the others and stared out over the lake, towards the Forest, as the 
little man in black droned on ... there was movement among the trees. The 
centaurs had come to pay their respects,  too. They did not move into the 
open but Harry saw them 
 
standing quite still, half-hidden in shadow, watching the wiz-ards, their 
bows hanging at their sides. And Harry  remem-bered his first nightmarish 
trip into the Forest, the first time he had ever encountered the thing that was 
then Voldemort, and how he had f aced him, and how he and Dumbledore 
had discussed fighting a lo sing battle not long thereafter. It was important, 
Dumbledore said, to fight, and fight again, and keep fighting, for only then 
could evil be kept at bay, t hough never quite eradicated ... 
 And Harry saw very clea rly as be sal there under the hot sun bow people 
who cared about him had stood in front  of him one by one, his mother, his 
father, his godfather, and finally Dumble dore, all determined to protect him; 
but now that was over. He  could not let anybody else  stand between him and 
Voldemort; he must abandon for ever the il lusion he ought to have lost at the 
age of one: that the shelter of a parent's arms meant that nothing could hurt 
him. There was no waking from his nigh tmare, no comforting whisper in the 
dark that he was safe really, that it wa s all in his imagination; the last and 
greatest of his proteclors had died and he was more alone than he had ever 
been before. 
 
The little man in black had stopped speak ing at last and resumed his seat. 
Harry waited for somebody else to get to  their feet; he expected speeches, 
probably from the Minister, but nobody moved. 
 
Then several people screamed. Bright , white flames had erupted around 
Dumbledore's body and the table upon whic h it lay: higher and higher they 
rose, obscuring the body. White smoke spiralled into the air and made 
strange shapes: Harry thought, for one h eart-stopping moment, that he saw a 
phoenix fly joyfully into the blue, but next second the fire had vanished. In 
its place was a white marble tomb , encasing Dumbledore's body and the 
table on which he had rested. 
 
There were a few more cries of shoc k as a shower of arrows soared 
through the air, but they fell far short of the crowd. It was, Harry knew, the 
centaurs' tribute: he saw them turn tail  and disappear back into the cool trees. Likewise the mer-people sank slowly ba ck into the green water and were 
lost from view. 
 
Harry looked ai Ginny, Ron and Hermione: Ron's face was screwed up as 
though the sunlight was blinding him. Hermione's face was glazed with 
tears, but Ginny was no longer crying. She met Harry's g aze with the same 
hard, blazing look that he had seen when she had hugged him after winning 
the Quidditch Cup in his absence, and he knew that at that moment they 
understood each other perfectly, and that  when he told her what he was 
going to do now, she would not say 'Be careful', or 'Don't do it', but accept 
his decision, because she would not have expected anything less of him. And 
so he steeled himself to say what he had known he must  say ever since 
Dumbledore had died. 
 
'Ginny, listen ...' he said  very quietly, as the buzz of con-versation grew 
louder around them and people began to get to their feet . 'I can't be involved 
with you any more. We've got to st op seeing each other. We can't be 
together.' 
 
She said, with an oddly twisted smile, 'It's for some stupid, noble reason, 
isn't it?' 
 
'It's been like ... like something out of  someone else's life, these last few 
weeks with you,' said Harry. 'But 1 can't ... we can't ... I've  got things to do 
alone now.' 
 
She did not cry, she simply looked at him,  
'Voldemort uses people his enemies ar e close to. He's already used you as 
bait once, and that was just because you' re my best friend's sister. Think how 
much danger you'll be in if we keep th is up. He'll know, he'll find out. He'll 
try and get to me through you.' 
 
'What if I don't care?' said Ginny fiercely. 
 
'I care,' said Harry. 'How  do you think I'd feel if this was your funeral ... 
and it was my fault ...' 
 
She looked away from him, over the lake. 
 
T never really gave up on you,' she said. 'Not really. I always hoped ... 
Hermione told me to get on with life,  maybe go out with some other people, 
relax a bit around you, because I never used to be able to talk if you were in 
the room, remember? And she thought you might take a bit more notice if I 
was a bit more - myself.' 
 
'Smart girl, that Hermione,' said Harry, trying to smile. 'I just wish I'd 
asked you sooner. We coukTve had ages  ... months ... years maybe ...' 
 
'But you've been too busy saving the wizarding world,' said Ginny, half-
laughing. 'Well ... I can't say I'm surprise d. I knew this would happen in the 
end. I knew you wouldn't be happy unl ess you were hunting Voldemort. 
Maybe that's why I like you so much.' 
 Harry could not bear to hear these things, nor did he think his resolution 
would hold if he remained sitting besi de her. Ron, he saw, was now holding 
Hermione and stroking her hair while she sobbed into his shoulder, tears 
dripping from the end of his own long no se. With a miserable gesture, Harry 
got up, turned his back on Ginny and on Dumbledore's tomb and walked 
away around the lake. Moving felt much more  bearable than sitting still: just 
as setting out as soon as possible to track down the Horcruxes and kill 
Voldemort would feel better than waiting to do it ... 
 
'Harry!' 
 
He turned. Rufus Scrimgeour was li mping rapidly towards him around the 
bank, leaning on his walking stick. 
 
'I've been hoping to have a word ... do you mind if I walk a little way with 
you?' 
 
'No,' said Harry indiffere ntly, and set off again. 
 
'Harry, this was a dreadful tragedy,' sa id Scrimgeour quietly, 'I cannot tell 
you how appalled I was to h ear of it. Dumbledore was a very great wizard. 
We had our disagree-ments, as you kn ow, but no one knows better than 1 -' 
 
•What do you want?' asked Harry flatly. 
 
Scrimgeour looked annoyed but, as  before, hastily modified his 
expression to one of sorrowful understanding.  
'You are, of course, devastated,' he said. 'I know that you were very close 
to Dumbledore. I think you may have been his favourite ever pupil. The 
bond between the two of you -' 
 
'What do you want?' Harry re peated, coming to a halt. 
 
Scrimgeour stopped too, leaned on his stick and stared at Harry, his 
expression shrewd now. 
 
'The word is that you were with him when he left the school the night that 
he died.' 
 
'Whose word?' said Harry. 
 
'Somebody Stupefied a Death Eater on top of the Tower after Dumbledore 
died. There were also two broomsticks up there. The Ministry can add two 
and two, Harry.' 
 
'Glad to hear it,' said Harry. 'Well,  where I went with Dumbledore and 
what we did is my business. He didn't want people to know.' 
 
'Such loyalty is admirable, of course,'  said Scrimgeour, who seemed to be 
restraining his irritation with difficulty, 'bul Dumbledore is gone, Harry. He's 
gone.' 
 'He will only be gone from the school wh en none here are loyal to him,' 
said Harry, smiling in spite of himself. 
 
'My dear boy ... even Dumbledore cannot return from the-' 
 
'I am not saying he can. You wouldn't understand. But I've got nothing to 
tell you.' 
 
Scrimgeour hesitated, then said, in what was evidently 
 
supposed to be a tone of delicacy, Th e Ministry can offer you all sorts of 
protection, you know, Harry. I would be delighted to place a couple of my 
Aurors at your service -' 
 
Harry laughed. 
 
'Voldemort wants to kill me himself a nd Aurors won't stop him. So thanks 
for the offer, but no thanks.' 
 
'So,' said Scrimgeour, his voice cold now, 'the request 1 made of you at 
Christmas -' 
 
'What request? Oh yeah ... the one wh ere I tell the world what a great job 
you're doing in exchange for —' 
 
'- for raising everyone's mo rale!' snapped Scrimgeour. 
 Harry considered him for a moment. 
 
'Released Stan Shunpike yet?' 
 
Scrimgeour turned a nasty purple colour highly remin-iscent of Uncle 
Vernon. 
 
'1 see you are -' 
 
'Dumbledore's man through and thro ugh,' said Harry. 'That's right.' 
 
Scrimgeour glared at him for another moment, then turned and limped 
away without another word. Harry could see Percy and the rest of the 
Ministry delegation waiting for him, ca sting nervous glances at the sobbing 
Hagrid and Grawp, who were still in their seats. Ron a nd Hermione were 
hurry-ing towards Harry, passing Scrimgeour going in the opposite direction; Harry turned and walked sl owly on, waiting for them to catch up, 
which they finally did in the shade of a beech tree under which they had sat in happier times. 
 
"What did Scrimgeour want ?' Hermione whispered. 
 
'Same as he wanted at Christmas,' shrugged Harry. 'Wanted me to give 
him inside information on Dumbledore and be the Ministry's new poster boy.' 
 Ron seemed to struggle with himself fo r a moment, then he said loudly to 
Hermione, 'Look, let me go back and hit Percy!' 
 
'No,' she said firmly, grabbing his arm. 
 
'It'll make me feel better!' 
 
Harry laughed. Even Herm ione grinned a little, thoug h her smile faded as 
she looked up at the castle. 
 
'I can't bear the idea that  we might never come back.' she said softly. 'How 
can Hogwarts close?' 
 
'Maybe it won't,' said Ron.  'We're not in any more danger here than we are 
at home, are we? Everywhe re's the same now. I'd even say Hogwarts is 
safer, there are more wizards inside to defend the place. What d'you reckon, 
Harry?' 
 
'I'm not coming back even if it does reopen,' said Harry. 
 
Ron gaped at him, but Hermione said  sadly, 'I knew you were going to 
say that. But then what will you do? 1 
 
'I'm going back to the Dursleys' on ce more, because Du mbledore wanted 
me to,' said Harry. 'But it'll be a short visit, and then I'll be gone for good.' 
 
'But where will you go if you don't  come back to school?'  
'I thought I might go back to Godric's Hollow,' Harry mut-tered. He had 
had the idea in his head ever since the night of Dumbledore's death. 'For me, 
it started there, all of it. I've just got  a feeling I need to go there. And I can 
visit my parents' graves, I'd like that.' 
 
'And then what?' said Ron. 
 
Then I've got to track down the rest of the Horcruxes, haven't I?' said 
Harry, his eyes upon Dumbledore's white tomb, reflected in the water on the 
other side of the lake. That's what he wanted me to do, that's why he told me 
all about them. If Dumbledore was right - and I'm sure he wa s -there are still 
four of them out there. I've got to fi nd them and destroy them and then I've 
got to go after the seventh bit of Vold emort's soul, the bit that's still in his 
body, and I'm the one who's going to kill him. And if I meet Severus Snape 
 
along the way,' he added, 'so much tr ie better tor me, so mucn the worse 
for him.' 
 
There was a long silence. The crowd had almost dispersed now, the 
stragglers giving the monumental figur e of Grawp a wide berth as he 
cuddled Hagrid, whose howls of grie f were still echoing across the water. 
 
'We'll be there, Harry,' said Ron. 
 
'What?' 
 At your aunt and uncle's house,' said Ron. 'And then we'll go with you, 
wherever you're going.' 
 
'No -' said Harry quickly; he had not  counted on this, he had meant them 
to understand that he was undertaking this most dangerous journey alone. 
 
'You said to us once before,' said Herm ione quietly, 'that there was time to 
turn back if we wanted to. We've had time, haven't we?' 
 
'We're with you whatever happens,' sa id Ron. 'But, mate, you're going to 
have to come round my mum and dad's house before  we do anything else, 
even Godric's Hollow.' 
 
'Why?' 
 
'Bill and Fleur's wedding, remember?' 
 
Harry looked at him, startled; the idea that anything as normal as a 
wedding could still exist seemed incredible and yet wonderful. 
 
'Yeah, we shouldn't miss th at,' he said finally. 
 
His hand closed automatically around th e fake Horcrux, but in spite of 
everything, in spite of the dark and tw isting path he saw stretching ahead for 
himself, in spite of the final meet-i ng with Voldemort he knew must come, 
whether in a month, in a year, or in te n, he felt his heart lift at the thought that there was still one last golden day of peace left to enjoy with Ron and 
Hermione.

THE END